

===== PAGE 1 =====
1
SensCAP: A Systematic Sensing Capability
Performance Metric for 6G ISAC
Guangyi Liu, Liang Ma, Yahui Xue, Lincong Han, Rongyan Xi, Zixiang Han, Hanning Wang, Jing Dong,
Mengting Lou, Jing Jin, Qixing Wang and Yifei Yuan, Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—The 6th generation mobile communication system
(6G) will provide everything as a service (XaaS), where X includes
communication, sensing, computing, artificial intelligence (AI),
big data and security and more. Novel features such as sensing
as a Service (SaaS) will contribute to further realising Internet of
Everything (IoE). Integrated Sensing and Communication (ISAC)
is identified as one of the six usage scenarios for 6G by the Inter-
national Telecommunication Union Radiocommunication Sector
(ITU-R), and the corresponding studies on the detailed technical
performance requirements and evaluation methodologies have
begun in 2024. Although ISAC has become a popular topic,
there are no systematic performance requirements metrics and
corresponding evaluation methodologies defined for SaaS in a
mobile communication system, while conventional key perfor-
mance indicators (KPI) for radar systems have been borrowed
currently. Therefore, to fill this gap, this paper proposes SensCAP,
a systematic CAPability performance metric composed of Sensing
Capacity, Accuracy and Probability. The sensing capacity reflects
the comprehensive sensing performance, which can be expressed
as the number of targets that can be detected per unit area within
unit time, given Sensing Quality of Service (QoS) requirements
consisting of sensing accuracy and probability. Furthermore, the
performance evaluation of the SensCAP is conducted through
system simulation using proposed evaluation methodologies, and
the KPI values are suggested as the guidelines for further study
in ITU-R.
Index Terms —6G, Integrated Sensing and Communication,
Quality of Service, Technical Performance Requirements, Evalua-
tion Methodologies, Test Environments, ITU-R, Standardization.
I. I NTRODUCTION
T
HE-SIXTH-GENERATION (6G) mobile communication
network will provide a variety of services by embrac-
ing enhanced communication and novel capabilities including
sensing, computing, artificial intelligence (AI), big data and
security. These novel capabilities are native-designed and
implemented to achieve Internet of Everything (IoE) [1]–[3],
which is the paradigm shift for 6G. Novel capabilities such
as sensing and AI, will transform mobile network operators
from communication-service providers to information-service
providers, and realize the vision of digital twin and ubiquitous
intelligence [4]–[6]. Integrated Sensing and Communication
(ISAC) is one of the major emerging technologies for 6G,
Manuscript received 1 April, 2024; revised 26 June, 2024; accepted 11 July,
2024.
The authors are with China Mobile Research Institute, Beijing, China
(Corresponding author: Liang Ma, e-mail: maliangyjy@chinamobile.com).
Copyright (c) 2024 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted.
However, permission to use this material for any other purposes must be
obtained from the IEEE by sending a request to pubs-permissions@ieee.org.
and the key use cases include intelligent transportation such
as vehicle-to-everything (V2X) and unmanned aerial vehicle
(UA V) economy, as well as smart manufacturing [7], [8], as
shown in Fig. 1. From the technical perspective, sensing and
communication have similar data processing flow in terms
of signal generation, transmission, reception and processing.
Moreover, communication systems are evolving to higher
frequencies and larger antenna arrays, which is de facto for
radar sensing systems. Thus, the integration of sensing and
communication is an inevitable trend [9]. Different levels of
integration will lead to various folds of benefits, for example,
hardware-level integration will lead to cost reduction, signal-
level integration will save the spectrum and bring performance
enhancement, and data-level integration will cultivate new
applications [10]–[12].
Fig. 1. Typical use cases of ISAC.
The 6G standardization has entered a new phase. In June
2023, ITU-R Working Party 5D (WP 5D) finished the Interna-
tional Mobile Telecommunications-2030 (IMT-2030) Frame-
work Recommendation [13] after a two-and-a-half-year study.
This milestone document has defined 6G vision and identified
6 usage scenarios and 15 key capabilities for 6G. IMT-
2030 Framework Recommendation has revealed guidelines
and design principles for 6G, with enhanced as well as novel
scenarios and capabilities including ISAC. As shown in Fig. 2,
from 2024 to 2026, ITU-R WP 5D will investigate technical
performance requirements, evaluation methodologies, test en-
vironments and evaluation criteria for IMT-2030 (6G), laying
the foundations for technology proposal evaluation which will
take place later from 2028 to 2029 [14]. Similar reports have
been published for previous generations, for example, [15]
is the technical performance requirements and [16] is the
evaluation methodology for IMT-2020 (5G). Therefore, the
technical performance requirements, evaluation methodologies
and test environments of new IMT-2030 capabilities such
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

===== PAGE 2 =====
2
Fig. 2. ITU-R IMT-2030 timeline.
as sensing are vital for the next phase of 6G research and
standardization.
There are several key components required to define and
evaluate the performance of Sensing as a Service (SaaS),
including technical performance requirement definition, eval-
uation methodology, test environment, simulation platform
and configuration, and ISAC channel modelling. Research on
certain topics has already begun, but with more work to be
done. In terms of KPI definition, 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP) Service and System Aspects Working Group 1
(SA1) has finished the Feasibility Study on Integrated Sensing
and Communication [17], 32 use cases and their performance
requirements have been defined. However, the KPIs defined
are mostly conventional radar system requirements such as
accuracy of positioning estimate, sensing resolution, refreshing
rate, etc. Besides, these KPIs are not technical performance
requirements but are rather drawn from service demands.
Regarding the 32 use cases identified, a down-selection fo-
cusing on the essential ones is needed to define suitable test
environments for evaluation.
In terms of ISAC channel modelling, 3GPP Radio Access
Network Working Group 1 (RAN1) has initiated the study on
the ISAC channel model since 2024 [18], [19]. The channel
modelling should be based on measurements and simulation,
and a number of related studies have been conducted [20]–
[24]. In addition, the channel correlation between communi-
cation and sensing is an essential topic to discuss, relevant
research includes [25]–[28] and more. The 3GPP ISAC chan-
nel modelling study is still in progress and will pave the way
for evaluation methodologies once it is finished.
Regarding evaluation methodology, simulation platform and
configuration, little work has been completed. The ISAC
system simulation is the simulation for the entire system of
both sensing and communication, which encompasses system-
level simulation and link-level simulation. Although system-
level and link-level sensing simulations can be borrowed from
those of communication, the unified ISAC system simulation
is still absent.
Therefore, this paper intends to fill the gap in the field of
KPI definition, evaluation methodology, test environment, sim-
ulation platform and configuration. To the best of the author’s
knowledge, currently, there is no publication detailing tech-
nical performance requirements and evaluation methodologies
for sensing capabilities. Therefore, the main contribution of
this paper is to propose a systematic technical performance
requirement metric for sensing capabilities, as well as corre-
sponding evaluation methodologies and test environments. For
the first time, we propose SensCAP, a systematic CAPability
performance metric composed of Sensing Capacity, Sensing
Accuracy and Sensing Probability, and their corresponding
evaluation methodologies. SensCAP reflects the comprehen-
sive sensing performance, namely, the number of targets that
can be detected per unit area within unit time, given Sensing
QoS requirements which consist of sensing accuracy and
probability. The suggested KPI values of SensCAP are given
based on ISAC system simulations.
The rest of the paper is organised as follows and is
illustrated in Fig. 3: Section II introduces the definition of
SensCAP. Section III gives the evaluation methodologies for
SensCAP. Section IV presents the system model and sensing
processing algorithm which is used for evaluation. Section V
introduces the test environments, network layouts, simulation
parameters and the novel unified ISAC system simulation
platform. Section VI shows simulation results and analysis.
Section VII concludes this paper by providing SensCAP KPI
values and suggesting future research directions.
II. S ENS CAP: D EFINING TECHNICAL PERFORMANCE
REQUIREMENTS FOR SENSING CAPABILITIES
In this section, we give the definition of SensCAP which
is a systematic CAPability performance metric consisting of
Sensing Capacity, Accuracy and Probability. We first introduce
sensing probability, which indicates the ability to detect the
presence of targets and is the prerequisite for accurate sensing.
Then we discuss sensing accuracy which shows the individual
sensing performance of certain targets. Sensing probability and
sensing accuracy build up Sensing QoS. Sensing capacity is
then defined as the number of targets that can be detected
given Sensing QoS, which reflects the comprehensive sensing
performance.
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

===== PAGE 3 =====
3
Fig. 3. Main contributions and core structure of the paper.
A. Sensing Probability
1) Definition: Detection probability and false alarm rate
are typical radar requirements. For the sensing probability
defined here, we focus on the detection probability for a given
false alarm rate. The sensing probability is defined as the
ratio of successfully detected targets to the total number of
targets, with a given false alarm rate as the prerequisite for
obtaining the detection probability. Sensing probability shows
the ability to detect the presence of sensing targets (STs),
which is inherent in high-performance sensing.
The reason for defining sensing probability as above is
twofold. Firstly, the typical values of false alarm rate are
smaller than 10−6 [29], which is difficult to evaluate through
simulations as the target sample size is not large enough in
ISAC evaluation setups. Secondly, using the false alarm rate
as the input to acquire detection probability is the proper
evaluation approach, more discussions are shown below.
2) Relationship between Detection Probability and False
Alarm Rate: In this section, we demonstrate the relationship
between the detection probability and the false alarm rate to
further elaborate on sensing probability. When detecting the
presence of a target, one of the following two assumptions
must hold (
H0 : y = w,
H1 : y = s + w, (1)
where the first assumption indicates that there is only noise
and the second assumption indicates that there is noise and
the target, y denotes the observation vector based on N
sample data. The probability capacity function (PDF) describes
the observations that need to be tested based on any of the
hypothetical cases. The py(y|H1) and py(y|H0) are the PDFs
of the observation vector for the presence and absence of the
Fig. 4. PDFs under H0 and H1 assumptions.
target, respectively. Detection probability Pd means a target is
detected in the presence of a target, and false alarm rate Rf a
means that a target is detected in the absence of a target. For
example, as shown in Fig. 4, the two PDFs denote py(y|H0)
and py(y|H1), where the Pd and Rf a are expressed as the
area of the two PDFs from the threshold of black line to +∞,
respectively.
In the field of radar sensing, the Neyman-Pearson criterion is
usually used for target detection [30]. Such criterion indicates
the detection performance is optimized while ensuring that the
false alarm rate does not exceed the tolerable range, i.e.
max Pd, s.t. R f a ≤ α, (2)
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

===== PAGE 4 =====
4
where α is the maximum false alarm rate. This optimization
problem can be solved by the method of Lagrange multipliers
as follows
F = Pd + λ(Rf a − α), (3)
To find the optimal solution to maximize F , the following
expressions can be obtained
py(y|H1)
py(y|H0)
H1
≷
H0
− λ, (4)
where λ is a detection threshold. The decision criteria rep-
resent the likelihood ratio test [31]. The presence or absence
of the target depends on the observation y and the detection
threshold λ. Therefore, we define the sensing probability as
the detection probability for a given false alarm rate.
3) Detection Algorithm: For radar sensing systems, one of
the most commonly used detection algorithms is the constant
false alarm rate (CFAR) detection algorithm. The CFAR
detector adaptively determines the detection threshold while
maintaining a certain number of false alarms [32]. When target
detection is performed on the received signal, since the noise
power of different detection units usually changes, the noise
power of each detection unit needs to be estimated. Hence in
CFAR detection, we first obtain noise power by calculating the
average power of the adjacent units, which is effectively the
noise power of the current detection unit. Next, we choose a
false alarm rate Rf a that meets the demand, and then calculate
the detection threshold of the current detection unit according
to the Rf a and noise power. Finally, we decide whether there
is a target in the current detection unit based on the detection
threshold. The detailed mathematical relationship equation is
as follows
Sthres = Nru × (R
− 1
N
f a − 1) × pn, (5)
where Sthres is the detection threshold, Nru denotes the
number of reference units used to estimate the noise power, pn
denotes the noise power estimated from Nru reference units,
and Rf a denotes the given false alarm rate. From (5) we can
see that the false alarm rate is a prerequisite for obtaining the
detection probability, and vice versa.
B. Sensing Accuracy
1) Definition: Regarding sensing accuracy, we focus on
localization accuracy and velocity accuracy. The former can
be derived from range estimation and angle estimation, and the
latter can be obtained from Doppler estimation. The definition
of localization/velocity accuracy is the difference between the
estimated localization/velocity and true values. Such perfor-
mance requirements can be presented as localization accuracy
of la m for a given confidence level (@ confidence level),
and velocity accuracy va m/s @ confidence level, where
the sensing accuracy can be obtained from the Cumulative
Distribution Function (CDF) plot of sensing estimation error
given a typical confidence level of 90%. The expression
of accuracy @ confidence level is commonly used in the
performance evaluation such as in 3GPP New Radio (NR)
positioning [33]. The confidence level of 90% means the
90th percentile point on the CDF plot of sensing estimation
error, and the corresponding sensing estimation error at 90th
percentile point is the value of sensing accuracy.
Moreover, it should be noted that velocity is a vector with
direction and magnitude. Thus, at least two receivers are
involved when estimating velocity using Doppler informa-
tion. Another approach using only one receiver for velocity
estimation is to calculate average velocity using the loca-
tion difference of two time-instances divided by the elapsed
time. Such a method will reduce certain sensing processing
complexities at the cost of non-real-time results, and the
aggregated error introduced by localization estimation may
degrade the performance. Detailed sensing localization and
velocity estimation algorithms will be presented in Section
IV-B.
2) Cram ´er-Rao Lower Bound (CRLB): As a lower bound
for the mean square estimation (MSE) of any unbiased estima-
tor, CRLB is an important tool for the performance evaluation
of various estimation methods. Thus, CRLB can demonstrate
the theoretical limit of sensing accuracy. Suppose that there
are N parameters related to the target to be estimated from
the received signal y, such as the target’s position, velocity,
orientation, etc. They form a parameter vector denoted as
η ∈ CN ×1. Assuming that ˆη is the unbiased estimator of
η, then the MSE can be lower bounded by the CRLB
EY |η
h
(ˆη − η) (ˆη − η)T
i
⪰ J−1
η , (6)
where EY |η [·] denotes the conditional expectation operation.
The matrix Jη is the N ×N Fisher Information Matrix (FIM),
with elements [34]
[Jη]i,j = Ey|η

− ∂ log fy|η(y|η)
∂[η]i
∂ log fy|η(y|η)
∂[η]j

, (7)
where fy|η(y|η) denotes the conditional likelihood function
of y under the condition of known η.
In some cases, the position of the target is estimated through
a series of intermediate parameters like channel parameters,
containing delay, angle of arrival (AoA) and angle of departure
(AoD), etc., denoted as ζ. Therefore, the FIM of position
estimation will be derived from the FIM of channel estimation
[35]
Jη = TT JζT =
 ∂ζ
∂η
T
Jζ
 ∂ζ
∂η

, (8)
where T is the Jacobian matrix representing the derivation
function of ζ w.r.t. η. The closed-form expression of sensing
accuracy CRLB is not the focus of this paper, and the detailed
derivation procedures of it can be easily found in a number of
publications such as [36]–[38].
C. Sensing Capacity
The sensing probability and sensing accuracy form Sens-
ing QoS, which indicates the sensing service quality that
users will experience. Working from Sensing QoS, we define
Sensing Capacity, a systematic sensing performance indicator,
to demonstrate the comprehensive capabilities of the ISAC
system. The definition of Sensing Capacity is the number of
sensing targets that can be detected per unit area within the
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

===== PAGE 5 =====
5
unit time, given certain Sensing QoS requirements (@Sensing
QoS) which include sensing accuracy and sensing probability.
In other words, sensing capacity indicates that ISAC system
can detect N sensing targets per km2 @localization accuracy
of la m @velocity accuracy va m/s @detection probability of
Pd @false alarm rate of Rf a within 1s.
The sensing resource restraint of 1s (per unit time) is
required in order to demonstrate the overall performance of
ISAC systems, for both sensing and communication function-
alities. However, sensing resource restraint is not rigorous.
Although it is not strictly limited, the simulation configurations
should include sensing signal duration as an indication of
sensing resources used. SensCAP requirements should be met
within the sensing signal duration which should be less than
1s. Furthermore, the ratio of sensing signal duration to unit
time 1s can be perceived as sensing resource utilization. As
the total time-frequency-space resources available are limited,
hence the trade-off between communication and sensing per-
formances exists. The sensing resource utilization should be
relatively low such that outstanding sensing performances can
be achieved without compromising communication.
Sensing capacity is a comprehensive sensing performance
requirement, with the consideration of different aspects of
sensing service quality including sensing probability and
sensing accuracy. Moreover, sensing capacity also takes into
account communication-signal interference on the sensing
targets, and poses requirements on sensing resource utilization.
Therefore, SensCAP is able to demonstrate the comprehensive
performance of ISAC systems, and can provide guidelines for
the definition of sensing technical performance requirements.
III. E VALUATION METHODOLOGIES FOR SENS CAP
This section gives detailed evaluation methodologies for
SensCAP. It should be noted that the evaluation of sensing
probability and sensing accuracy are not mandatory, they
are used for determining KPI values of Sensing QoS. The
sensing capacity evaluation given Sensing QoS requirements
is required for candidate technology evaluation. Furthermore,
we propose a generic evaluation methodology for sensing,
which is suitable for not only SensCAP but also other sensing
metrics. In the evaluation methods, the total number of sensing
targets that are involved in the simulation is N, and is
expressed as the number of dropped sensing targets (STs) in
the remaining parts.
A. Evaluation Methodology for Sensing Probability
The evaluation methodology of sensing probability is given
in Evaluation Methodology 1. It should be noted that the
simulation results of sensing probability can be obtained
from the Evaluation Methodology 3 for sensing capacity. The
evaluation methodology defined here is used to determine the
requirements for sensing probability and form Sensing QoS.
B. Evaluation Methodology for Sensing Accuracy
The evaluation methodology of sensing accuracy is given
in Evaluation Methodology 2. It should be noted that the
Evaluation Methodology 1 Evaluation Methodology for
Sensing Probability
1: Perform unified ISAC system simulation using the eval-
uation parameters in TABLE II and III for ISAC test
environments, given false alarm rate Rf a.
2: Generate sensing transmit signal, and obtain sensing
receive signal. Perform sensing signal processing, and
record whether a target is present or not.
3: If necessary, run multiple simulation drops by repeating
Steps 1-2, and record the total number of successfully
detected targets Ndect.
4: Calculate the detection probability Pd = Ndect/N for a
given false alarm rate Rf a, where N is the total number
of dropped STs.
simulation results of sensing accuracy are used to obtain the
requirements for sensing accuracy and form Sensing QoS. Be-
sides conducting simulations, sensing accuracy requirements
can be obtained from mathematical calculations based on
sensing resolution. The sensing accuracy can be perceived as
plus and minus half of the resolution, where the localization
resolution is c/2B, velocity resolution is λ/2T (c is the speed
of light, B is sensing signal bandwidth, λ is the sensing signal
wavelength, T is the sensing signal duration). Therefore, we
can get sensing accuracy of c/4B m and λ/4T m/s.
It should be noted that sensing resolution is not defined for
sensing performance requirements, the reason is twofold. First,
we can drop STs such that the inter-ST distance is larger than
the localization resolution, but such ST dropping would lose
a certain degree of randomness. Secondly, we can randomly
drop STs, when two targets are too close to meet the resolution
requirements, then only one target can be correctly detected,
and this will be reflected in the sensing probability. Therefore,
in the SensCAP definition, we didn’t give requirements on
sensing resolution, with the considerations mentioned above.
Evaluation Methodology 2 Evaluation Methodology for
Sensing Accuracy
1: Perform unified ISAC system simulation using the eval-
uation parameters in TABLE II and III for ISAC test
environments with 10 sensing targets dropped per Sensing
Transmission Reception Point (SensTRxP).
2: Generate sensing transmit signal, and obtain sensing re-
ceive signal. Perform sensing signal processing, and obtain
localization estimation error ∆r and velocity estimation
error ∆v for each ST.
3: Plot the CDF curves of ∆r and ∆v, and derive the
localization accuracy la m and velocity accuracy va m/s
from the 90th percentile point of the CDF curves, where
90% is the confidence level of localization accuracy and
velocity accuracy.
C. Evaluation Methodology for Sensing Capacity
Having obtained the Sensing QoS requirements of sensing
probability and sensing accuracy, we give the evaluation
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

===== PAGE 6 =====
6
methodology for sensing capacity as shown in Evaluation
Methodology 3. The term “sensing capacity” can also be
named “sensing density”, and the “capacity evaluation” or
“density evaluation” methodologies are not new. For example,
[39] gives the evaluation method for V oice over Internet
Protocol (V oIP) capacity, [16] gives the evaluation methods
for connection density, where the key takeaway from it can
be applied here. The sensing capacity can be expressed as
Nc sensing targets per km2 @localization accuracy of la m
@velocity accuracy va m/s @detection probability of Pd
@false alarm rate of Rf a within unit time. As illustrated
in Section II-C, the sensing resource utilization should be
reported as the ratio of sensing time duration to the unit time,
in order to demonstrate the overall ISAC performance.
Evaluation Methodology 3 Evaluation Methodology for
Sensing Capacity
1: Perform unified ISAC system simulation using the eval-
uation parameters in TABLE II and III for ISAC test
environments with a total number of N sensing targets
dropped.
2: Generate sensing transmit signal, obtain sensing receive
signal, and perform sensing signal processing.
3: Record whether a target is present or not for a given false
alarm rate Rf a, and calculate the detection probability
Pd result, which should be better than sensing probability
performance requirements Pd.
4: Calculate the localization estimation error ∆r and velocity
estimation error ∆v for each ST detected. Plot the CDF
curves of ∆r and ∆v, derive the percentage R% that
fulfils both localization accuracy QoS requirement of la m
and velocity accuracy QoS requirement of va m/s.
5: If necessary, update N which is the number of dropped
STs, and repeat Steps 1-4 until at least 90% of the targets
fulfil Sensing QoS requirements (i.e. R% ≥ 90%).
6: Calculate the sensing capacity as C = N/A, where A is
the SensTRxP area.
D. Generic Evaluation Methodology for Sensing
Having investigated the evaluation methodologies for sens-
ing probability, accuracy and capacity, it can be found that
there are similarities among these. The key concept is first
to generate sensing transmit signals, and receive signals after
channel convolution. Then perform sensing signal processing,
and obtain relevant performance metrics. Therefore, we give
a generic evaluation methodology for sensing as shown in
Evaluation Methodology 4. The proposed generic evaluation
methodology is suitable for evaluating the majority of sensing
KPIs, and can be used for not only SensCAP but also other
sensing metrics.
To elaborate more on the compatibility and generality of
the proposed Generic Evaluation Methodology for Sensing,
here we compare Evaluation Methodology 4 with Evaluation
Methodologies 1 - 3. Regarding the Evaluation Methodology
1 for sensing probability, there are a total of four steps, the
procedures are similar to the generic evaluation methodology.
For Evaluation Methodology 2 of sensing accuracy, three steps
are presented, Step 3 in the generic evaluation methodology
is not implemented as there is no necessity to repeat Steps 1-
2 when evaluating sensing accuracy. In terms of Evaluation
Methodology 3 for sensing capacity, a total of six steps
are described, where Steps 2-4 correspond to Step 2 of the
generic evaluation methodology. Steps 3-4 of the sensing
capacity evaluation describe the fulfilment of Sensing QoS
which could be omitted, as the Sensing QoS has already
been briefly mentioned in Step 5, thus we provide Steps 3-
4 in the sensing capacity evaluation methodology for clarity
and better readability. If we consider Steps 2-4 of Evaluation
Methodologies 3 for sensing capacity as one step, then there
are four steps in total, which have the same structure as the
generic evaluation methodology.
Evaluation Methodology 4 Generic Evaluation Methodology
for Sensing
1: Perform unified ISAC system simulation and initialize
evaluation parameters.
2: Generate sensing transmit signal, obtain sensing receive
signal, and perform sensing signal processing.
3: If necessary, update evaluation parameters, and repeat
Steps 1-2 until satisfying certain requirements if any.
4: Obtain relevant sensing performance metrics based on the
sensing signal processing results.
IV. S YSTEM MODEL AND SENSING PROCESSING
This section gives the system model which is used in
system simulations, and also presents the sensing signal
processing algorithm. We use 5G New Radio (NR) with
Orthogonal Frequency-Division Multiplexing (OFDM) signals
as the foundation of the system model and sensing processing.
The sensing algorithm described in this section is the basic
approach of sensing, where the delay and Doppler information
can be extracted based on the differences between receive and
transmit signals. Related parameters in this section are shown
in TABLE I.
A. System Model
As shown in Fig. 5, the ISAC network includes I sensing
TRxPs (SensTRxP) with NT transmitted antennas and NR
received antennas and J downlink communication TRxPs
(CommTRxP) with MT antennas. There are also integrated
sensing and communication TRxPs (ISACTRxP), which can
be reduced to a SensTRxP or a CommTRxP for a given
period with the assumption of time-duplexed sensing and
communication functions. In addition, assume each downlink
CommTRxP serves one communication user equipment (UE)
in a given OFDM symbol, denoted as UEj. UEs are equipped
with MR antennas. Such assumption of one UE served per
CommTRxP can be easily extended to multiple UEs and we
use the current assumption for simplicity.
Regarding sensing process, each SensTRxPi (i = 1, . . . , I)
transmit sensing reference signals xs,i ∈ CNT ×1 with the
transmission power of Ps,i. The signal is then reflected by the
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

===== PAGE 7 =====
7
Parameter Description
I Number of SensTRxP
NT Number of sensing transmit antennas
NR Number of sensing receive antennas
J Number of CommTRxP as well as the associated UE
MT Number of communication transmit antennas
L Number of OFDM symbols
K Number of subcarriers
x Transmit signal
y Receive signal
w Noise signal
H Channel state matrix
ρ Path loss
Ω Spatial angle consists of elevation and azimuth
θ Elevation angle
ϕ Azimuth angle
fc Center frequency
Ts OFDM symbol duration
fD Doppler shift
∆f Subcarrier spacing
d Propagation distance of the sensing signal
v Velocity of the sensing target
TABLE I
MAIN PARAMETERS AND CORRESPONDING DESCRIPTIONS .
sensing target (ST) and received by either itself (monostatic)
or other SensTRxP (multistatic). The ST could be a connected
user or a non-connected object. This paper focuses on device-
free sensing where the targets do not participate in sensing
signal transmission, reception and processing.
In terms of communication, each CommTRxPj (j =
1, . . . , J) transmits communication data signals xc,j ∈
CMT ×1 with the transmission power of Pc,j to UEj in the
serving cell.
Fig. 5. System model.
For sensing, the signal ys,i received by SensTRxPi is
presented as follows:
ys,i =
IX
i′=1
(ys,i,i′ + yss,i,i′) +
JX
j=1
ycs,i,j + ws, (9)
where w ∈ CNR×1 is the noise signal at SensTRxPi. It
should be noted that in the system model defined here, the
cluster interference is seen as noise due to its zero-Doppler
property. The links between SensTRxPs and STs are line-of-
sight (LoS). Regarding the non-line-of-sight (NLoS) sensing,
the assumption we made in this work is that NLOS links
will lead to much weaker receive signal power, and can be
considered as noise. Nevertheless, a variety of studies such
as [40], [41] focus on NLoS sensing, which will not be
thoroughly discussed here.
The sensing signals sent from SensTRxPi′, reflected by ST
and received by SensTRxPi is denoted by
ys,i,i′ =
p
ρs,i,i′Ps,i′Hs,i,i′xs,i′. (10)
And the sensing signals from SensTRxPi′ directly to
SensTRxPi, which contains the self-interference (when i′ =
i) and mutual-interference (when i′ ̸= i), is denoted by
yss,i,i′ =
p
ρss,i,i′Ps,i′Hss,i,i′xs,i′. (11)
Besides, the interference generated by CommTRxPj on the
SensTRxPi is denoted by
ycs,i,j =
p
ρcs,i,jPc,jHcs,i,jxc,j. (12)
In (10) - (12), Hs,i,i′ ∈ CNR×NT , Hss,i,i′ ∈ CNR×NT ,
Hcs,i,j ∈ CNR×MT , and ρs,i,i′, ρss,i,i′, ρcs,i,j are the
channel state matrices and path loss for the link from the
SensTRxPi′ to the SensTRxPi reflected by ST, the link from
the SensTRxPi′ directly to the SensTRxPi, and the link from
the CommTRxPj to the SensTRxPi, respectively. The path
loss is presented as follows [42]:
ρs,i,i′ = GstGsrλ2σRCS
(4π)3d2
i,ST d2
i′,ST
,
ρss,i,i′ = GstGsrλ
(4π)2d2
i,i′
,
ρcs,i,j = GctGsrλ
(4π)2d2
i,j
, (13)
where di′,ST , di,ST , di,i′, di,j are the distances from
the SensTRxPi′ to ST, from ST to SensTRxPi, from
SensTRxPi′ to SensTRxPi, from CommTRxPj to
SensTRxPi, respectively. λ is the wavelength, and σRCS is
the radar cross-section (RCS) of ST. Gst, Gsr, Gct are the
antenna gains of the SensTRxP’s transmitted array, received
array and the CommTRxP’s transmitted array, respectively.
From (9), we can derive the signal-to-interference-plus-
noise ratio (SINR) of the sensing signal received by
SensTRxPi:
SINRs,i = Pr,s,i
(Ic,i + Iss,i + Pw) , (14)
where Pw is the noise power, Pr,s,i is the received sensing
signal power, Ic,i and Iss,i are the interference signal power of
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

===== PAGE 8 =====
8
the CommTRxPs and SensTRxPs respectively on SensTRxPi:
Pr,s,i =
IX
i′=1
ρs,i,i′Ps,i′ ∥Hs,i,i′∥2
F ,
Iss,i =
IX
i′=1
ρss,i,i′Ps,i′ ∥Hss,i,i′∥2
F ,
Ic,i =
JX
j=1
ρcs,i,jPc,j ∥Hcs,i,j∥2
F . (15)
For communication, the signal yc,j received by UEj is
expressed as:
yc,j =
p
ρc,jPc,jHc,jxc,j +
IX
i=1
p
ρsc,j,iPs,iHsc,j,ixs,i
+
JX
j′=1,j′̸=j
p
ρcc,j,j′Pc,j′Hcc,j,j′xc,j′ + wc, (16)
where the first term of the right-hand side is the data sig-
nal from CommTRxPj, the second term is the interference
from SensTRxPs, the third term is the interference caused
by other CommTRxPs to UEj, and the fourth term is the
noise signal at CommTRxPj. Hc,j, Hcc,j,j′ ∈ CMR×MT ,
Hsc,j,i ∈ CMR×NT and ρc,j, ρcc,j,j′, ρsc,j,i are the channel
state matrices and path loss of the link from CommTRxPj to
UEj, from CommTRxPj′ to UEj, and from the SensTRxPi
to UEj, respectively. Besides, ρc,j, ρcc,j,j′, ρsc,j,i has similar
expression as ρcs,i,i′.
Based on (16), the SINR of the communication signal
received by UEj is calculated as follows:
SINRc,j = ρc,jPc,j ∥Hc,j∥2
F
(Ic,j + Is,j + Pw) , (17)
where Ic,j and Is,j are the power of the interference signals
from other CommTRxPs and the SensTRxPs respectively on
UEj:
Ic,j =
JX
j′=1,j′̸=j
ρcc,j,j′Pc,j′ ∥Hcc,j,j′∥2
F ,
Is,j =
IX
i=1
ρsc,j,iPs,i ∥Hsc,j,i∥2
F . (18)
B. Sensing Algorithm and Signal Processing
In this section, the location and velocity estimation algo-
rithm is demonstrated for the cooperative sensing systems
where multiple monostatic sensing processing is involved, and
such an algorithm can be reduced to a single monostatic
processing easily. To obtain the expected sensing results,
we need to first extract the Angle of Arrival (AoA), signal
propagation distance and radial velocity from the received
signal of each SensTRxP.
Regarding AoA estimation, we can first compensate the
received signal by using the steering vector of the antenna
array ai (Ω), i = 1, 2, ..., I, as
gi (Ω, k, l) = aH
i (Ω) yi (k, l) , (19)
where I is the total number of SensTRxPs, and Ω = ( θ, ϕ)
denotes the spatial angle with θ and ϕ referring to the elevation
and azimuth angles in spherical coordinates, respectively. By
calculating the sum power received from each angle as
hi (Ω) =
L−1X
l=0
K−1X
k=0
|gi (Ω, k, l)|2 , (20)
we can obtain ˆΩi =

ˆθi, ˆϕi

which is the AoA, including the
elevation and azimuth angles of STs by searching the peaks
of hi (Ω), where l = 0 , ..., L − 1 and k = 0 , ..., K − 1 are
the OFDM symbol index and subcarrier index of a resource
element (RE), with L and K are the total number of OFDM
symbols and subcarriers respectively.
We can then estimate signal propagation distance and radial
velocity by the estimated AoA ˆΩi. Dividing gi in (19) by the
transmit symbols si, we have
˜gi (Ω, k, l) = gi (Ω, k, l)
si
(21)
which is equivalent to the sensing channel information plus
noise and interference. Therefore, we can perform two-
dimensional discrete Fourier transform (2D-DFT) on ˜gi [43]
as
˜Gi (p, q) = 1
kl
LX
l=0
iX
k=0
˜gi (Ω, k, l)
× e−j(p− l
2) 2π
l lej(q−1) 2π
i k.
(22)
The phase induced by the time delay τ and radial velocity can
be compensated when
TsfD =
 
ˆpi − l
2

l , (23)
τ∆f = (ˆqi − 1)
k . (24)
where (ˆpi, ˆqi) is the peak index of OFDM symbols and
subcarrier in ˜gi, fD is the Doppler offset caused by the radial
velocity, ∆f is the subcarrier spacing and Ts is the symbol
duration. The propagation distance ˆdi and the radial velocity
ˆv∥,i of sensing objects can then be solved as
ˆv∥,n =
 
ˆpi − l
2

c
lTsfc
, (25)
ˆdi = (ˆqi − 1) c
k∆f . (26)
Based on the AoA ˆΩi =

ˆθi, ˆϕi

, propagation distance ˆdi
and radial velocity ˆv∥,n estimated by I SensTRxPs, we can
optimize the position estimation of ST as follows. Assuming
that the coordinate of SensTRxPi is (xi, yi, zi) and the co-
ordinate of ST is (x, y, z), we can formulate the optimization
problem as
(x, y, z) = min
x,y,z
iX
k=1
αi
 ˆdi − 2di
 +
iX
k=1
βi
ˆθi − θi

+
iX
k=1
γi
ˆϕi − ϕi
 ,
(27)
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

===== PAGE 9 =====
9
where di =
q
(x − xi)2 + (y − yi)2 + (z − zi)2 is the dis-
tance between SensTRxPi and ST, θi = arccos z−zi
di
and
ϕi = arctan y−yi
x−xi
are the elevation and azimuth angle of the
ST with respect to SensTRxPi, αi, βi and γi are the weighting
coefficients for the results estimated by SensTRxPi. The
optimization problem (27) can be quickly solved by using
the interior-point method with the optimal estimation of ST
position being (ˆx, ˆy, ˆz) [44].
Next, we estimate object velocity, denoted as (vx, vy, vz),
based on the estimated object position (ˆx, ˆy, ˆz) and radial
velocity ˆv∥,i. The radial velocity of the ST with respect to
SensTRxPi can be written as
v∥,i =vxsinˆθicosˆϕi + vysinˆθisinˆϕi + vzcosˆθi, (28)
where ˆθi and ˆϕi are respectively updated as
θi = arccos ˆz−zi
ˆdi
and ˆϕi = arctan ˆy−yi
ˆx−xi
with
ˆdi =
q
(ˆx − xi)2 + (ˆy − yi)2 + (ˆz − zi)2. Therefore,
we can formulate the optimization problem as
(vx, vy, vz) = min
vx,vy,vz
IX
i=1
φi
ˆv∥,i − v∥,i
 , (29)
where φi is the weighting coefficient. The optimization prob-
lem (29) can be solved again by using the interior-point
method.
V. T EST ENVIRONMENTS AND SYSTEM SIMULATIONS
In this section, we present test environments, network
layouts, evaluation configurations, and simulation platforms,
which are important pieces of system simulations.
A. Test Environments and Network Layouts
Focusing on the key ISAC use cases as discussed in Section
I which are V2X, UA V economy and smart manufacturing, we
define three ISAC test environments:
• Outdoor - V2X - ISAC: An urban environment with
high ST density focusing on vehicles. Regarding network
layout, the Base Stations (BSs) or sites are placed in
a regular grid, following a hexagonal layout with three
TRxPs each, the same as the Dense Urban network layout
in [16]. The STs are randomly dropped on the road lane
as shown in Fig. 6, the same as the V2X network layout
in [45].
• Outdoor - UA V - ISAC: An urban environment with high
ST density focusing on UA Vs. Regarding network layout,
the BSs/sites are placed in a regular grid, following
a hexagonal layout with three TRxPs each, the same
as the Dense Urban network layout [16] as shown in
Fig. 7. As Outdoor - V2X - ISAC and Outdoor - UA V
- ISAC test environments both have dense-urban-style
network layouts, we could merge these two into Dense
Urban - ISAC test environments with different evaluation
configurations.
• Indoor - Factory- ISAC: An indoor isolated environment
at factories focusing on Automated Guided Vehicles
(AGVs) with high ST density. The BSs/sites are placed in
20-meter spacing as shown in Fig. 8, with a floor surface
of 120 m × 50 m containing 12 BSs/sites, which is the
same as the indoor network layout in [16].
B. Simulation Platforms
In this section, we give detailed procedures for system-level
sensing simulation, link-level sensing simulation, and unified
ISAC system simulation. The proposed unified ISAC system
simulation is a platform that integrates both system-level and
link-level sensing simulations, and is vital for KPI definition
and evaluations of Sensing Capacity @ Sensing QoS. Detailed
ISAC system simulation platform descriptions are shown in
Simulation Procedure 1.
In addition, we also present system-level and link-level
sensing simulation in Simulation Procedure 2 and 3, which
is used for Evaluation Methodology 5 in the Appendix B
(detailed explanation of it will be presented in Section VI). The
sensing system-level and link-level simulations are similar to
those for communications, with sensing channel and sensing
signal processing embedded. Given the absence of mature
ISAC channel modelling, such system-level and link-level
sensing simulations can reduce simulation workload, and are
in nature very similar to the unified ISAC system simulation.
Besides, the benefit of using system-level simulation plus link-
level simulation is that we can obtain some intermediate results
such as SINR to examine the sensing performance.
Simulation Procedure 1 Unified ISAC System Simulation
1: Configure simulation parameters and test environments.
2: Drop BS and initialize BS parameters.
3: Drop ST and UE, initialize corresponding parameters.
4: Generate sensing channel, communication channel and
interference channel respectively, include both large-scale
and small-scale channels.
5: Perform ST-BS pairing and UE-BS pairing respectively.
6: For a given slot, perform resource scheduling and signal
transmission.
7: Update channel, SensTRxPs perform sensing signal re-
ception and processing, CommTRxPs perform communi-
cation signal reception and processing.
8: Conduct slot loop of Steps 6-7, and record simulation
results for different targeted performance indicators.
Simulation Procedure 2 System-level Simulation
1: Configure simulation parameters and test environments.
2: Drop BS and initialize BS parameters.
3: Drop ST and UE, initialize corresponding parameters.
4: Generate large-scale sensing channel, communication
channel and interference channel respectively.
5: Perform ST-BS pairing and UE-BS pairing respectively.
6: For a given slot, perform resource scheduling.
7: Update channel, and calculate SINR.
8: Conduct slot loop of Steps 6-7, and record SINR results.
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

===== PAGE 10 =====
10
Fig. 6. Network layout for Outdoor - V2X - ISAC test environment.
Fig. 7. Network layout for Outdoor - UA V - ISAC test environment.
Fig. 8. Network layout for Indoor - Factory - ISAC test environment.
Simulation Procedure 3 Link-level Simulation
1: Configure simulation parameters and test environments.
2: Drop BS and initialize BS parameters.
3: Drop ST and UE, initialize corresponding parameters.
4: Generate small-scale sensing channel, communication
channel and interference channel respectively.
5: Generate transmit signal, convolve with the small-scale
channel.
6: Add interference and noise using the SINR results ob-
tained from the system-level simulations to get the re-
ceived signal.
7: Perform sensing signal processing, and record simulation
results for different targeted performance indicators.
C. Evaluation Configurations
Detailed evaluation configurations and simulation parame-
ters are given in TABLE II and III. In the simulation, we focus
on sensing processing where the sensing and communication
functionalities operate at a time-division mode. We choose
time-division mode because outstanding sensing localization
performance requires a large bandwidth. Therefore, using
time-division will provide more bandwidth and is also bene-
ficial in terms of flexible signal scheduling. We use dedicated
sensing reference signals in the simulation, and the Gold
sequence is used for signal generation. Detailed sequence
generation equation is not the focus of the paper and relevant
information can be found in [46].
As discussed in Section III-B, the sensing accuracy and
resolution depend on time-frequency resources, and sensing
accuracy can be perceived as plus and minus half of the
resolution. Considering the localization resolution of c/2B,
we use 100 MHz and 400 MHz, which will yield localization
resolution of 1.5 m and 0.375 m for outdoor and indoor
configurations respectively. Regarding velocity resolution of
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

===== PAGE 11 =====
11
Parameters Notation Value
Center Frequency fc 7 GHz
Bandwidth BW 100 MHz
Signal duration T 20 ms
Subcarrier Spacing SCS 60 kHz
Base station transmit power Pt 52 dBm
Inter-site distance ISD 200 m
Base station antenna height hBS 25 m
Number of vertical antennas M 16
Number of horizontal antennas N 8
Number of Polarization P 2
Number of vertical channels MP 8
Number of horizontal channels NP 8
Antenna gain per element Gant 8 dBi
Antenna element vertical-spacing dant v 0.8λ
Antenna element horizontal-spacing dant h 0.5λ
Antenna electrical downtilt angle
(V2X / UA V) Adt 11° / -11°
Radar cross section
(V2X / UA V) RCS 10 m2 /
0.1 m2
Sensing target height
(V2X / UA V) HST
0 m /
25 - 100 m
TABLE II
SIMULATION PARAMETERS FOR OUTDOOR -ISAC TEST ENVIRONMENTS .
Parameters Notation Value
Center Frequency fc 26 GHz
Bandwidth BW 400 MHz
Signal duration T 10 ms
Subcarrier Spacing SCS 120 kHz
Base station transmit power Pt 24 dBm
Inter-site distance ISD 20 m
Base station antenna height hBS 3 m
Number of vertical antennas M 16
Number of horizontal antennas N 8
Number of Polarization P 2
Number of vertical channels MP 8
Number of horizontal channels NP 8
Antenna gain per element Gant 5 dBi
Antenna element vertical-spacing dant v 0.5λ
Antenna element horizontal-spacing dant h 0.5λ
Antenna electrical downtilt angle Adt 90°
Radar cross section (AGV) RCS 1 m2
Sensing target height (AGV) HST 0 m
TABLE III
SIMULATION PARAMETERS FOR INDOOR -ISAC TEST ENVIRONMENTS .
λ/2T , we use 20 ms and 10 ms, which will yield velocity
resolution of 1.07 m and 0.58 m for outdoor and indoor
configurations respectively.
It should be noted that as mentioned in Section V-B, system-
level plus link-level simulations are conducted. Besides, the
channel coefficient generation procedure is shown in Appendix
A.
VI. S IMULATION RESULTS AND ANALYSIS
This section presents the simulation results of SensCAP. For
sensing capacity simulations, as illustrated in Section V-B,
since ISAC channel model is still under research, we use
system-level plus link-level sensing simulations to reduce the
simulation workload. The alternative Evaluation Methodology
5 in the Appendix B is used in the simulation. This is in nature
very similar to the Evaluation Methodology 3, only with the
sensing target dropping method changed (refer to Appendix
B for more details). Also, another advantage of using system-
level simulation plus link-level simulation is that we can obtain
some intermediate results such as SINR to investigate the
sensing performance more closely.
Regarding the sensing resource utilization, as shown in
TABLE II and III, the sensing signal duration is 20 ms and
10 ms for Outdoor-ISAC test environments and Indoor-ISAC
test environments, therefore, the sensing resource utilization
is only 2% and 1%, respectively. Such sensing resource
utilization demonstrates the outstanding ISAC performance for
both sensing and communication.
A. Sensing Probability
This section presents the simulation results of sensing
probability. TABLE IV demonstrates the sensing detection
probability given different false alarm rates. It can be observed
that the sensing detection probability and false alarm rate hold
a trade-off, where the improvement of one will degrade the
performance of the other one. This is because a larger false
alarm rate indicates that the detection threshold has become
lower, and a lower threshold leads to more targets detected,
which results in an increased detection probability.
B. Sensing Accuracy
This section presents the simulation results of sensing
accuracy. Fig. 9 - 11 demonstrate the CDF curves of sensing
localization error and velocity error for different test environ-
ments. Take the confidence level of 90% for localization and
70% for velocity, the localization accuracy is 1.44 m, 2.03 m
and 1.23 m and the velocity accuracy is 1.55 m/s, 4.46 m/s
and 0.95 m/s for Outdoor - V2X - ISAC test environment,
Outdoor - UA V - ISAC test environment and Indoor - Factory
- ISAC test environment, respectively. To get roughly 1 m
or 1 m/s sensing accuracy, the confidence level we choose
for velocity accuracy (70%) is lower than that of localization
accuracy (90%). If we also choose 90% for the confidence
level of velocity accuracy, for example in the V2X case, this
will lead to 3 m/s velocity accuracy. This is because the
velocity is estimated using Doppler estimation results from
multiple SensTRxPs, one SensTRxP will yield the best SINR
as well as sensing estimation performances, and the other
SensTRxPs will have worse performance than the best one.
Therefore, the velocity performance is degraded when using
multiple SensTRxPs for velocity estimation. As mentioned in
Section II-B, another method is to calculate average velocity
using the location difference of two time-instances divided
by the elapsed time. This should improve velocity estimation
performance as only one SensTRxP with the best SINR is used
for estimation. More simulations and corresponding analyses
of such methods could be done in the future.
C. Sensing Capacity
This section presents the simulation results of sensing
capacity. Fig. 12 - 14 demonstrate the simulation result of
sensing SINR that meets Sensing QoS requirements when
evaluating sensing capacity, for Outdoor - V2X - ISAC test
environment, Outdoor - UA V - ISAC test environment and
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

===== PAGE 12 =====
12
False
Alarm
Rate
Test Environments
Total
number
of
dropped
STs
Number
of suc-
cessfully
detected
STs
Detection
Proba-
bility
10−3
Outdoor - V2X -
ISAC 11040 11040 100%
Outdoor - UA V -
ISAC 10500 10500 100%
Indoor - Factory -
ISAC 9396 9396 100%
10−4
Outdoor - V2X -
ISAC 11040 11010 99.73%
Outdoor - UA V -
ISAC 10500 10495 99.95%
Indoor - Factory -
ISAC 9396 9396 100%
10−5
Outdoor - V2X -
ISAC 11040 10890 98.64%
Outdoor - UA V -
ISAC 10500 10361 98.68%
Indoor - Factory -
ISAC 9396 9396 100%
10−6
Outdoor - V2X -
ISAC 11040 10410 94.29%
Outdoor - UA V -
ISAC 10500 9953 94.79%
Indoor - Factory -
ISAC 9396 9392 99.96%
10−7
Outdoor - V2X -
ISAC 11040 9390 85.05%
Outdoor - UA V -
ISAC 10500 9227 87.88%
Indoor - Factory -
ISAC 9396 9301 99.03%
10−8
Outdoor - V2X -
ISAC 11040 8640 78.26%
Outdoor - UA V -
ISAC 10500 8353 79.55%
Indoor - Factory -
ISAC 9396 8993 95.71%
10−9
Outdoor - V2X -
ISAC 11040 7740 70.11%
Outdoor - UA V -
ISAC 10500 7477 71.21%
Indoor - Factory -
ISAC 9396 8434 89.76%
TABLE IV
SIMULATION RESULTS OF SENSING PROBABILITY .
Fig. 9. Simulation results of sensing accuracy for Outdoor - V2X - ISAC
test environment.
Fig. 10. Simulation results of sensing accuracy for Outdoor - UA V - ISAC
test environment.
Fig. 11. Simulation results of sensing accuracy for Indoor - Factory - ISAC
test environment.
Indoor - Factory - ISAC test environment, respectively. Fig.
15 - 16 show the simulation result of the relationship between
sensing accuracy and SINR for Outdoor - ISAC and Indoor -
ISAC test environments respectively.
From the figures, we can find the relationship between
SINR and sensing accuracy, and also the SINR threshold that
meets Sensing QoS. The STs are dropped as many as possible
considering the physical environments and the localization
resolution (refer to Appendix B for more details). Based on
the link-level simulation results (Fig. 15 - 16), we can get
the SINR that corresponds to Sensing QoS requirements. By
using this SINR as the threshold to analyze the CDF plots of
system-level simulation results (Fig. 12 - 14), we can get the
percentage of targets R% that fulfil Sensing QoS requirements.
Then we can get the number of targets Nc = N × R% that
fulfil Sensing QoS requirements, and obtain sensing capacity
C = Nc/A accordingly, where N is the total number of
dropped STs and A is the SensTRxP area. From the simulation
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

===== PAGE 13 =====
13
results in this section, we can get the sensing capacity as shown
in TABLE V.
Fig. 12. Simulation results of sensing SINR that meets sensing QoS
requirements when evaluating sensing capacity, given Outdoor - V2X - ISAC
test environment.
Fig. 13. Simulation results of sensing SINR that meets sensing QoS
requirements when evaluating sensing capacity, given Outdoor - UA V - ISAC
test environment.
VII. C ONCLUSION
In summary, for the first time, we propose the technical
performance requirement metric and corresponding evaluation
methodologies for 6G ISAC to fill the gap in this area. Specif-
ically, we propose SensCAP, a systematic Sensing CAPability
performance metric comprising Sensing Capacity, Sensing
Accuracy and Sensing Probability. The sensing probability
and sensing accuracy build up Sensing QoS, which is used
to formulate sensing capacity. Sensing capacity reflects the
comprehensive sensing performance, namely, the number of
targets that can be detected per unit area within unit time given
Sensing QoS requirements.
Fig. 14. Simulation result of sensing SINR that meets sensing QoS require-
ments when evaluating sensing capacity, given for Indoor - Factory - ISAC
test environment.
Fig. 15. Simulation results of the relationship between sensing accuracy and
SINR for Outdoor - ISAC test environments.
Furthermore, we illustrate evaluation methodologies, test
environments, evaluation configurations, simulation platforms
and simulation results for SensCAP. Based on the simulation
results and analysis, TABLE VI gives the suggested values
of SensCAP for different test environments. It’s essential that
the definition and evaluation methodologies of SensCAP can
be used as a framework for the future standardization of
ISAC. Different KPI values can be obtained given the research
outcome on ISAC channel modelling and different simulation
parameters, which will need more consensus in the industry.
Regarding future research direction, the definition and eval-
uation methodologies of SensCAP could be further improved
by enriching the content of Sensing QoS. For example, sensing
air interface latency can also be part of Sensing QoS, which
sets requirements on the time used to transmit the sensing
signal. Then the definition of sensing capacity can be updated
as the number of targets that can be detected per unit area
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

===== PAGE 14 =====
14
Test
Environments
Total number of
dropped STs
(N)
Number of
successfully
detected STs
Sensing
Probability
Percentage of
STs that meet
Sensing QoS
requirements
(R%)
Number of
targets that
meet Sensing
QoS
requirements
(Nc =
N × R%)
Area (A, in
km2)
Sensing
Capacity
(C = Nc/A)
Outdoor - V2X
- ISAC 368 351
95.39% @
10−6 false
alarm
42% 155 0.2425 639 per km2
Outdoor - UA V
- ISAC 2100 1997
95.01% @
10−6 false
alarm
29% 609 0.2425 2511 per km2
Indoor -
Factory - ISAC 3132 3131
99.97% @
10−6 false
alarm
87% 2725 0.006 454167 per
km2
TABLE V
SIMULATION RESULTS OF SENSING CAPACITY .
Technical Performance Requirements Test Environments Suggested KPIs
Sensing Capacity @ Sensing QoS
(Sensing Accuracy of la m localization
accuracy and va m/s velocity accuracy,
Sensing Probability of Pd detection
probability and Rf a false alarm rate)
Outdoor - V2X - ISAC 600 per km2 @ 1.5m localization accuracy of @ 2m/s velocity accuracy
@ 90% detection probability @ 10−6 false alarm rate
Outdoor - UA V - ISAC 2500 per km2 @ 2m localization accuracy of @ 5m/s velocity accuracy
@ 90% detection probability @ 10−6 false alarm rate
Indoor - Factory - ISAC 400,000 per km2 @ 1.25m localization accuracy of @ 1 m/s velocity accuracy
@ 95% detection probability @ 10−6 false alarm rate
TABLE VI
SUGGESTED KPI VALUES FOR SENS CAP.
Fig. 16. Simulation results of the relationship between sensing accuracy and
SINR for Indoor - ISAC test environment.
given Sensing QoS requirements which include sensing prob-
ability, accuracy, air interface latency, etc. Such sensing air
interface latency can be part of the evaluation configurations
for simulations, which pose stricter requirements than sensing
resource utilization discussed in Section II-C. Considering the
3GPP numerology, a typical value of sensing air interface
latency could be one or multiple times of 10 ms which is
the length of a single frame. In terms of test environments
and simulation setups, more representative use cases can be
further investigated. For example, Outdoor - Rural - ISAC
which focuses on intrusion detection of hazardous objects on
highways and railways, and Indoor - Smart Home - ISAC
which concentrates on home automation and health moni-
toring. Besides, the channel modelling of ISAC which may
contain different kinds of interference should be considered
thoroughly in the system simulation platform in light of
3GPP progress. Different sensing modes including BS or
UE monostatic, BS-BS or BS-UE multistatic could also be
incorporated in the simulations. Furthermore, updated KPI
values given new test environments, simulation configurations
and mature ISAC channel model are essential and need to be
further investigated in the future.
APPENDIX A
CHANNEL COEFFICIENT GENERATION
The detailed sensing channel coefficient generation proce-
dure is shown in Fig. 17, which refers to [47] as the baseline.
It should be noted that such channel generation mechanisms
might be updated in light of the latest 3GPP discussions.
APPENDIX B
ALTERNATIVE EVALUATION METHODOLOGY FOR SENSING
CAPACITY
The alternative evaluation methodology for Sensing Capac-
ity is given in Evaluation Methodology 5. As mentioned in
Section V-B, since ISAC channel model is still under research,
we use system-level plus link-level sensing simulations to
reduce the simulation workload. The alternative Evaluation
Methodology 5 is in nature very similar to the Evaluation
Methodology 3, only with ST dropping method changed. Here,
the STs are dropped considering the physical environments and
the resolution, where the inter-target distance is localization
resolution. The resolution is pre-defined using equation c/2B
or utilising the outcome of the resolution simulation, where c is
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

===== PAGE 15 =====
15
Fig. 17. Channel coefficient generation procedure.
the speed of light and B is the sensing signal bandwidth. The
target-dropping methods for different ISAC test environments
are given as follows:
• Outdoor - V2X - ISAC: Drop vehicles on each road lane
considering road configuration for urban grid as shown in
Fig. 6, assuming the length of a vehicle is 5m and inter-
vehicle distance is 10m. The total number of vehicles is
N.
• Outdoor - UA V - ISAC: Drop N0 = 100 UA Vs per
SensTRxP, which consists of NCluster = 4 UA V clus-
ters, each cluster with K = 25 UA Vs (x-axis with 5
UA Vs multiple y-axis with 5 UA Vs on a two-dimensional
plane), the inter-target distance for any two UA Vs along
the x-axis or y-axis is localization resolution, N0 =
NCluster ×K. The UA V clusters are randomly distributed
with heights shown in TABLE II. The total number of
UA Vs isN = NT RxP ×N0, where NT RxP is the number
of SensTRxP involved in the simulation.
• Indoor - Factory- ISAC: Drop AGVs with a total number
of N. The inter-target distance for any two AGVs along
the x-axis or y-axis is the localization resolution, and
assuming the AGV size is 1m × 1m.
The above ST dropping method is given as an example,
which will lead to a total of N dropped targets. Through
simulation, we can get R% of the total N targets that meet
the Sensing QoS requirements, hence the sensing capacity is
obtained.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank the 6G team members
within the Future Research Lab at the China Mobile Research
Evaluation Methodology 5 Alternative Evaluation Method-
ology for Sensing Capacity
1: Perform system-level simulation using the evaluation pa-
rameters for ISAC test environments in TABLE II and III,
and record the receive-end SINR for each sensing target.
The total number of sensing targets is N, where the inter-
target distance relates to resolution.
2: Perform link-level simulation, generate sensing transmit
signal, and obtain sensing receive signal for each target
through the sensing channel information which consists of
ST’s true location and velocity as well as SINR obtained
in Step 1.
3: Record whether a target is present or not for a given false
alarm rate Rf a, and calculate the detection probability
Pd result, which should be better than sensing probability
performance requirements Pd.
4: Calculate the localization estimation error ∆r and velocity
estimation error ∆v for each ST detected. Plot the CDF
curves of ∆r and ∆v (or plot CDF of SINR obtained in
Step 1), and derive the percentage R% that fulfils both
localization accuracy and velocity accuracy requirements.
5: Calculate the number of targets Nc = N × R% that meet
Sensing QoS requirements. Then calculate the sensing
capacity as C = Nc/A, where A is the SensTRxP area.
Institute, particularly Chunfeng Cui, Yajuan Wang, Xiaozhou
Zhang, Zhitian Cheng, Zhiwen Sun, Siying Lv, Songhui Shen
and Xin Gui.
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

===== PAGE 16 =====
16
REFERENCES
[1] D. C. Nguyen, M. Ding, P. N. Pathirana, A. Seneviratne, J. Li, D. Niyato,
O. Dobre, and H. V . Poor, “6G Internet of Things: A Comprehensive
Survey,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal , vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 359–383,
2022.
[2] Y . Cui, F. Liu, X. Jing, and J. Mu, “Integrating Sensing and Communi-
cations for Ubiquitous IoT: Applications, Trends, and Challenges,”IEEE
Network, vol. 35, no. 5, pp. 158–167, 2021.
[3] Y . Zhou, L. Liu, L. Wang, N. Hui, X. Cui, J. Wu, Y . Peng, Y . Qi, and
C. Xing, “Service aware 6G: An intelligent and open network based
on convergence of communication, computing and caching,” Digital
Communications and Networks , vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 253–260, 2020.
[4] G. Liu, Y . Huang, N. Li, J. Dong, J. Jin, Q. Wang, and N. Li, “Vision,
requirements and network architecture of 6G mobile network beyond
2030,” China Communications, vol. 17, no. 9, pp. 92–104, 2020.
[5] Y . Qi, Y . Zhou, Y .-F. Liu, L. Liu, and Z. Pan, “Traffic-Aware Task
Offloading Based on Convergence of Communication and Sensing in
Vehicular Edge Computing,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal , vol. 8,
no. 24, pp. 17 762–17 777, 2021.
[6] Y . Peng, X. Tang, Y . Zhou, Y . Hou, J. Li, Y . Qi, L. Liu, and H. Lin,
“How to Tame Mobility in Federated Learning Over Mobile Networks?”
IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications , vol. 22, no. 12, pp.
9640–9657, 2023.
[7] G. Liu, R. Xi, Z. Han, L. Han, X. Zhang, L. Ma, Y . Wang, M. Lou, J. Jin,
Q. Wang, and J. Wang, “Cooperative Sensing for 6G Mobile Cellular
Networks: Feasibility, Performance and Field Trial,” IEEE Journal on
Selected Areas in Communications , pp. 1–1, 2024.
[8] Z. Wei, H. Qu, Y . Wang, X. Yuan, H. Wu, Y . Du, K. Han, N. Zhang,
and Z. Feng, “Integrated Sensing and Communication Signals Toward
5G-A and 6G: A Survey,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal , vol. 10,
no. 13, pp. 11 068–11 092, 2023.
[9] F. Liu, C. Masouros, A. P. Petropulu, H. Griffiths, and L. Hanzo, “Joint
Radar and Communication Design: Applications, State-of-the-Art, and
the Road Ahead,” IEEE Transactions on Communications, vol. 68, no. 6,
pp. 3834–3862, 2020.
[10] J. A. Zhang, F. Liu, C. Masouros, R. W. Heath, Z. Feng, L. Zheng, and
A. Petropulu, “An Overview of Signal Processing Techniques for Joint
Communication and Radar Sensing,” IEEE Journal of Selected Topics
in Signal Processing , vol. 15, no. 6, pp. 1295–1315, 2021.
[11] L. Ma, C. Pan, Q. Wang, M. Lou, Y . Wang, and T. Jiang, “A Downlink
Pilot Based Signal Processing Method for Integrated Sensing and
Communication Towards 6G,” in 2022 IEEE 95th Vehicular Technology
Conference: (VTC2022-Spring), 2022, pp. 1–5.
[12] L. Han, J. Jin, Q. Wang, M. Lou, X. Zhang, L. Ma, Y . Wang, Z. Han,
G. Liu, and X. Yue, “Performance Trade-off for a Novel Integrated
Localization and Communication System,” in 2023 IEEE 97th Vehicular
Technology Conference (VTC2023-Spring), 2023, pp. 1–7.
[13] Framework and overall objectives of the future development of IMT for
2030 and beyond , Recommendation ITU-R M.2160, 2023.
[14] ITU-R WP 5D. (2022) IMT towards 2030 and beyond.
[Online]. Available: https://www.itu.int/en/ITU-R/study-groups/rsg5/
rwp5d/imt-2030/Pages/default.aspx
[15] Minimum requirements related to technical performance for IMT-2020
radio interface(s), Report ITU-R M.2410, 2017.
[16] Guidelines for evaluation of radio interface technologies for IMT-2020 ,
Report ITU-R M.2412, 2017.
[17] Feasibility Study on Integrated Sensing and Communication , 3GPP TR
22.837, 2023.
[18] Nokia, “New SID: Study on channel modelling for Integrated Sensing
And Communication (ISAC) for NR,” 3GPP, Proposal RP-234069, 2023.
[19] RAN Chair, “Summary for RAN Rel-19 Package: RAN1/2/3-led,” 3GPP,
Proposal RP-232745, 2023.
[20] CMCC, BUPT, SEU, and PML, “Discussion on channel modeling
methodology for ISAC,” 3GPP, Proposal R1-2400342, 2024.
[21] Z. Chai, Y . Zhang, G. Liu, Y . Liu, J. Wang, T. Jiang, and J. Zhang, “Em-
pirical path loss channel modeling at 28 ghz for integrated sensing and
communication system,” in 2023 International Conference on Wireless
Communications and Signal Processing (WCSP) , 2023, pp. 366–370.
[22] J. Wang, J. Zhang, Y . Zhang, T. Jiang, L. Yu, and G. Liu, “Empirical
Analysis of Sensing Channel Characteristics and Environment Effects
at 28 GHz,” in 2022 IEEE Globecom Workshops (GC Wkshps) , 2022,
pp. 1323–1328.
[23] J. Zhang, J. Wang, Y . Zhang, Y . Liu, Z. Chai, G. Liu, and T. Jiang,
“Integrated Sensing and Communication Channel: Measurements, Char-
acteristics, and Modeling,” IEEE Communications Magazine , vol. 62,
no. 6, pp. 98–104, 2024.
[24] J. Zhang, J. Lin, P. Tang, Y . Zhang, H. Xu, T. Gao, H. Miao, Z. Chai,
Z. Zhou, Y . Li, H. Gong, Y . Liu, Z. Yuan, X. Liu, L. Tian, S. Yang,
L. Xia, G. Liu, and P. Zhang, “Channel Measurement, Modeling, and
Simulation for 6G: A Survey and Tutorial,” in arXiv preprint arXiv:
2305.16616, 2023.
[25] Xiaomi and BUPT, “Discussion on ISAC channel model,” 3GPP, Pro-
posal R1-2400573, 2024.
[26] Vivo, “Views on Rel-19 ISAC channel modeling,” 3GPP, Proposal R1-
2400257, 2024.
[27] Y . Liu, J. Zhang, Y . Zhang, Z. Yuan, and G. Liu, “A Shared Cluster-
Based Stochastic Channel Model for Integrated Sensing and Communi-
cation Systems,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology , vol. 73,
no. 5, pp. 6032–6044, 2024.
[28] Y . Liu, J. Zhang, Y . Zhang, H. Gong, T. Jiang, and G. Liu, “How to
Extend 3D GBSM to Integrated Sensing and Communication Channel
With Sharing Feature?” IEEE Wireless Communications Letters, pp. 1–1,
2024.
[29] M. I. Skolnik, Introduction to Radar Systems , 3rd ed. New York:
McGraw-Hill, 2001.
[30] M. A. Richards, Fundamentals of radar signal processing . McGraw-
Hill Education, 2014.
[31] L. Xiao, Y . Liu, T. Huang, X. Liu, and X. Wang, “Distributed Target
Detection With Partial Observation,” IEEE Transactions on Signal
Processing, vol. 66, no. 6, pp. 1551–1565, 2018.
[32] J. Chen, S. Zhou, P. K. Varshney, J. Lu, J. Zheng, H. Liu, and H. Su,
“A Sparsity Based CFAR Algorithm for Dense Radar Targets,” in 2020
IEEE Radar Conference (RadarConf20) , 2020, pp. 1–6.
[33] Study on NR positioning support , 3GPP TR 38.855, 2019.
[34] S. M. Kay, Fundamentals of statistical signal processing. Prentice Hall
PTR, 1993.
[35] A. Shahmansoori, G. E. Garcia, G. Destino, G. Seco-Granados,
and H. Wymeersch, “Position and Orientation Estimation Through
Millimeter-Wave MIMO in 5G Systems,”IEEE Transactions on Wireless
Communications, vol. 17, no. 3, pp. 1822–1835, 2018.
[36] A. Sakhnini, M. Guenach, A. Bourdoux, and S. Pollin, “A Cram ´er-
Rao Lower Bound for Analyzing the Localization Performance of a
Multistatic Joint Radar-Communication System,” in 2021 1st IEEE
International Online Symposium on Joint Communications & Sensing
(JC&S), 2021, pp. 1–5.
[37] Z. Wei, Y . Wang, L. Ma, S. Yang, Z. Feng, C. Pan, Q. Zhang, Y . Wang,
H. Wu, and P. Zhang, “5G PRS-Based Sensing: A Sensing Reference
Signal Approach for Joint Sensing and Communication System,” IEEE
Transactions on Vehicular Technology , vol. 72, no. 3, pp. 3250–3263,
2023.
[38] A. Liu, Z. Huang, M. Li, Y . Wan, W. Li, T. X. Han, C. Liu, R. Du,
D. K. P. Tan, J. Lu, Y . Shen, F. Colone, and K. Chetty, “A Survey on
Fundamental Limits of Integrated Sensing and Communication,” IEEE
Communications Surveys & Tutorials , vol. 24, no. 2, pp. 994–1034,
2022.
[39] Guidelines for evaluation of radio interface technologies for IMT-
Advanced, Report ITU-R M.2135, 2009.
[40] Q. Shi, L. Liu, and S. Zhang, “Joint Data Association, NLOS Mitigation,
and Clutter Suppression for Networked Device-Free Sensing in 6G Cel-
lular Network,” in ICASSP 2023 - 2023 IEEE International Conference
on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) , 2023, pp. 1–5.
[41] X. Wang, L. Han, R. Xi, L. Ma, M. Lou, J. Jin, Q. Wang, G. Liu, and
J. Wang, “Multipath-Exploited Bistatic Sensing with LoS Blockage in
MIMO-OFDM systems for 6G,” in 2024 IEEE International Conference
on Communications Workshops (ICC Workshops), accepted , 2024.
[42] W. Yang, Y . Chen, N. Cardona, Y . Zhang, Z. Yu, M. Zhang, J. Li,
Y . Chen, and P. Zhu, “Integrated Sensing and Communication Channel
Modeling and Measurements: Requirements and Methodologies Toward
6G Standardization,” IEEE Vehicular Technology Magazine , vol. 19,
no. 2, pp. 22–30, 2024.
[43] C. Sturm and W. Wiesbeck, “Waveform Design and Signal Processing
Aspects for Fusion of Wireless Communications and Radar Sensing,”
Proceedings of the IEEE , vol. 99, no. 7, pp. 1236–1259, 2011.
[44] Z. Han, H. Ding, X. Zhang, Y . Wang, M. Lou, J. Jin, Q. Wang, and
G. Liu, “Multistatic Integrated Sensing and Communication System in
Cellular Networks,” in 2023 IEEE Globecom Workshops (GC Wkshps) ,
2023, pp. 123–128.
[45] Study on evaluation methodology of new Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X)
use cases for LTE and NR , 3GPP TR 37.885, 2018.
[46] NR Physical channels and modulation , 3GPP TS 38.211, 2023.
[47] Study on channel model for frequencies from 0.5 to 100 GHz , 3GPP TR
38.901, 2019.
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

===== PAGE 17 =====
17
Guangyi Liu is the Chief Scientist of 6G
in China Mobile Communication Corporation
(CMCC), founding member and co-chair of the
6G Alliance of Network AI (6GANA), vice-chair
of THz industry alliance in China, and vice-chair
of the wireless technology working group of IMT-
2030 (6G) promotion group supported by Ministry
of Information and Industry Technology of China.
He has been leading the 6G R&D in CMCC since
2018. He has led the R&D of 4G’s evolution and
5G in CMCC from 2006 to 2020. He has acted as
spectrum working group chair and project coordinator of LTE evolution and
5G eMBB in Global TD-LTE Initiative (GTI) from 2013 to 2020 and led the
industrialization and globalization of TD-LTE evolution and 5G eMBB.
Liang Ma received the B.Eng. degree with First
Class Honours in Electrical and Electronic Engi-
neering from University College London, in 2018,
and the M.Sc. degree with Distinction in Com-
munications and Signal Processing from Imperial
College London, in 2019. He has been with Future
Research Lab, China Mobile Research Institute since
2020. His research interests include 6G, integrated
sensing and communication, MIMO, non-orthogonal
multiple access, and interference management. He is
a member of the Chinese delegation to ITU-R, and
is also involved in the work of other standardization organizations including
3GPP and NGMN, internationally, as well as IMT-2030 (6G) Promotion
Group and CCSA, domestically.
Yahui Xue received the M.S. degree in Geode-
tection and Information Technology from Central
South University in 2020. He has been with Future
Research Lab, China Mobile Research Institute since
2020. His research interests include wireless com-
munications, integrated sensing and communication
and multiple input multiple output systems.
Lincong Han received the B.S. degree in com-
munication engineering from Shandong University,
China, in 2017, and the Ph.D. in Communication
and Information Systems from Beihang University
in 2023, China. She has been with Future Research
Lab, China Mobile Research Institute since 2023.
Her research interests include 6G, integrated sensing
and communication, MIMO and interference man-
agement.
Rongyan Xi received the B.S. degree in communica-
tion engineering from Shandong University, China,
in 2017, and the Ph.D. degree in electronic engineer-
ing from Tsinghua University in 2023, China. She
has been with Future Research Lab, China Mobile
Research Institute since 2023. Her research interests
include 6G, integrated sensing and communication,
MIMO, target detection, positioning and system de-
sign.
Zixiang Han received the Bachelor’s degree in
Electronic Science and Technology from the Nanjing
University, Nanjing, China, in 2018 and the Ph.D.
degree in Electronic and Computer Engineering from
The Hong Kong University of Science and Technol-
ogy (HKUST), Hong Kong, in 2022. He is currently
a project manager with the Future Research Lab,
China Mobile Research Institute, Beijing, China. His
current research interests include integrated sens-
ing and communication, compact MIMO antennas,
MIMO systems, antenna design and optimization.
Hanning Wang is a member of technical staff in the
Future Research Lab, China Mobile Research Insti-
tute. She received the double B.S. degrees in infor-
mation engineering from Beijing Institute of Tech-
nology and Australian National University in 2014,
and the M.S. degree in electronics and telecom-
munications engineering from Australian National
University in 2015. Her current research interests in-
clude 6G, wireless communication, integrated sens-
ing and communication, MIMO.
Jing Dong received the M.S. degree in telecommu-
nication engineering from Xidian University, Xian,
China, in 2016. She is currently working at China
Mobile Research Institute. Her current research in-
terests include 6G visions and requirements, in-
tegrated sensing and communication, and multi-
dimensional integrated networking.
Mengting Lou is a member of technical staff in the
Future Research Lab, China Mobile Research Insti-
tute. She received B.S. and M.S. degrees from Bei-
jing Jiaotong University in 2015 and 2019, respec-
tively. Her current research interests include wireless
communications, integrated sensing and communi-
cation, virtual multi-input multi-output, sparse array
and coordinated multi-point transmission.
Jing Jin is a principal member of technical staff
in the Future Research Lab, China Mobile Research
Institute. She received the B.S. and Ph.D. degrees
from the Beijing University of Posts and Telecom-
munications in 2006 and 2011, respectively. Her
research interests include wireless communications,
MIMO, multiuser beamforming, and interference
cancellation.
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/

===== PAGE 18 =====
18
Qixing Wang received the B.S., M.S., and Ph.D.
degrees in information and communication engineer-
ing from Beijing University of Posts and Telecom-
munications, Beijing, China, in 2002, 2005, and
2008, respectively. He is a principal member of
technical staff responsible for 6G in Future Research
Lab, China Mobile Research Institute. His research
interests include wireless technology research and
development, including 5G and 6G.
Yifei Yuan (Fellow, IEEE) received his Bachelor’s
and Master’s degrees from Tsinghua University in
China and Ph.D from Carnegie Mellon University in
USA. He was with Lucent Technologies Bell Labs
from 2000 to 2008. From 2008 to 2020, he was with
ZTE Corporation as a technical director and chief
engineer, responsible for standards and research of
LTE-Advanced and 5G. He joined the China Mo-
bile Research Institute in 2020 as a Chief Expert,
responsible for 6G. He has extensive publications,
including 12 books on key air interface technologies
of 4G, 5G and 6G mobile communications. He has more than 60 granted US
patents.
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3430502
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 License. For more information, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/