

===== PAGE 1 =====
Keywords:
Engineering 56 (2026) 34–44
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Engineering 
journal homepag e: www.elsevier.com/locate/eng 
Research 
6G: From Theory to Practice—Article
Explicit Semantic-Base-Empowered Communications for 6G Mobile
Networks
Fengyu Wang a , 
a School of Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing 100876, China
Yuan Zheng b , 
b State Key Laboratory of Networking and Switching Technology, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing 100876, China
Wenjun Xu b,⁎ , Junxiao Liang b , Ping Zhang b , Zhu Han c 
c Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Houston, Houston, TX 77004, USA
a r t i c l e info
Article history: 
Received 9 December 2024
Revised 13 July 2025
Accepted 25 August 2025
Available online 9 September 2025
Semantic communications 
Semantic bases 
Knowledge base 
Unequal error protection
a b s t r a c t 
Increasing demands for massive data transmission pose signiﬁcant challenges to communication sys-
tems. Compared with traditional communication systems that focus on the accurate reconstruction of 
bit sequences, semantic communications (SemComs), which aim to deliver information connotation, 
are regarded as a key technology for sixth-generation (6G) mobile networks. Most current SemComs uti-
lize an end-to-end (E2E) trained neural network (NN) for semantic extraction and interpretation, which 
lacks interpretability for further optimization. Moreover, NN-based SemComs assume that the applica-
tion and physical layers of the protocol stack can be jointly trained, which is incompatible with current 
digital communication systems. To overcome those drawbacks, we propose a SemCom system that 
employs explicit semantic bases (Sebs) as the basic units to represent semantic connotations. First, a 
mathematical model of Sebs is proposed to build an explicit knowledge base (KB). Then, the Seb-based 
SemCom architecture is proposed, including both a communication mode and a KB update mode to
enable the evolution of communication systems. Sem-codec and channel codec modules are designed
speciﬁcally, with the assistance of an explicit KB for the efﬁcient and robust transmission of semantics.
Moreover, unequal error protection (UEP) is strategically implemented, considering communication
intent and the importance of Sebs, thereby ensuring the reliability of critical semantics. In addition, a
Seb-based SemCom protocol stack that is compatible with the ﬁfth-generation (5G) protocol stack is pro-
posed. To assess the effectiveness and compatibility of the proposed Seb-based SemComs, a case study
focusing on an image-transmission task is conducted. The simulations show that our Seb-based
SemComs outperform state-of-the-art works in learned perceptual image patch similarity (LPIPS) by over
20% under varying communication intents and exhibit robustness under ﬂuctuating channel conditions,
highlighting the advantages of the interpretability and ﬂexibility afforded by explicit Sebs.
© 2025 THE AUTHORS. Published by Elsevier LTD on behalf of Chinese Academy of Engineering and 
Higher Education Press Limited Company. Thi s is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/). 
1. Introductio n
Over the past few decades, the rapid development of mobile 
communications has profoundly revolutionized human society, 
shifting the world from the Internet of Things (IoT) to the Internet 
of Everything (IoE). A variety of innovative services, such as
extended reality (XR) and digital twins (DTs), have emerged, with
escalating requirements for data throughput and ubiquitous intel-
ligence, catalyzing the development of sixth-generati on (6G)
mobile networks.
⁎ Corresponding author. 
E-mail address: wjxu@bupt.edu.cn (W. Xu). 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eng.2025.08.039 
2095-8099/© 2025 THE AUTHORS. Published by Elsevier LTD on behalf of Chinese Academy of Engineering and Higher Education Press Limited Company. 
This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/). 
Current state-of-the-art communication frameworks are mainly 
designed based on Shannon’s classical information theory (CIT) [1], 
which characterizes information as random variables and assumes 
that semantics are irrelevant to communications, for the sake of 
the generality of the theory [
2]. However, 6G envisions the integra-
tion of ubiquitous artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) terminals to build a 
network that incorporates not only communications but also per-
ception and intelligence in order to achieve ubiquitous connectiv-
ity and intelligence. Consequently, CIT-based communication 
systems are struggling to meet the grand vision of 6G, necessitat-
ing a fundamental shift in the communication paradigm [
3].

===== PAGE 2 =====
Thanks to recent success in AI, user equipment (UE) such as IoT 
sensors and smartphones can understand the meaning of raw data
and use it to perform intelligent tasks [ 4]. As a result, semantic 
communications (SemComs), which perform in an
‘‘understanding-before-transmission” manner [
5], have been 
rapidly developing in recent years and are considered a key tech-
nology in achieving the vision of 6G [
6]. 
F. Wang, Y. Zheng, W. Xu et al. Engineering 56 (2026) 34–44
SemComs are capable of adaptively constructing scenario-
speciﬁc services by processing the essential connotations of mes-
sages according to the intent of intelligent tasks ( Fig. 1 ), thereby 
increasing the intelligence and efﬁciency of the system. More 
speciﬁcally, the meaning of messages is extracted and sent in a 
form that is understandable for both source and destination, with 
a knowledge base (KB) being introduced in SemComs to ensure
transceivers share the same background knowledge. A prevalent
approach employed in recent works involves the establishment
of an implicit KB based on an end-to-end (E2E) trained neural net-
work (NN) for SemComs [
7–9], also known as deep joint source and 
channel coding (DeepJSCC). To ensure transceivers can understand 
each other, NNs at both the transmitter and receiver are jointly
trained in semantic encoding/decoding (codec), where the param-
eters of the NNs serve as the implicit KB of SemComs.
Although techniques such as DeepJSCC have demonstrated the 
superiority of SemComs in terms of communication efﬁciency, 
the implicit KB-based architecture presents several challenges for 
practical implementation. A primary issue is that these systems
are trained under the premise that the environment (i.e., the statis-
tics of messages and channels) is static [ 10]. If channel conditions 
or the knowledge within messages deviate from the scope of the 
training data, the entire system needs to be retrained, resulting
in considerable additional overheads [ 11,12]. To overcome this 
issue, a task-unaware SemCom system for image transmission is
proposed in Ref. [ 13], where transfer learning is employed to 
evolve the KB, adapting the system under dynamic data settings.
Update mechanisms for the encoder–decoder NN and the KB mod-
ule are proposed in Ref. [ 14], in which KB is modeled as an explicit 
module independent of the encoder–decoder structure. However,
both studies [ 13,14] indirectly treat the training dataset as the 
KB, making the system’s utilization of knowledge indirect and 
necessitating an additional ﬁne-tuning process. Moreover, the 
aforementioned approaches struggle with issues of interpretabil-
ity, as the lack of interpretabil ity makes it difﬁcult to measure
the effectiveness of systems and make relevant updates. To theo-
retically clarify the interpretability of SemComs, a mathematical
theory of SemComs is proposed in Ref. [
15], which models 
SemComs from the perspective of synonymous mapping. However, 
the question of how to implement SemComs following the pro-
posed explicit and controllable synonymous mapping has not yet
been comprehensively studied.
Fig. 1. SemCom-empowered services for typical 6G applications.
35
In addition, thanks to transceiv ers’ ability to understand the 
meaning of the source message in SemComs, implementing 
unequal error protection (UEP) based on varying levels of message 
importance for a speciﬁc task has become an effectiv e way to
increase the efﬁciency of SemCom [
16,17]. Semantic importance 
can be detected by entropy modeling [ 18], saliency detectio n
[19], gradient-weighted class activation mapping (Grad-CAM)
[20], and so forth. However, most studies apply UEP based on an 
implicit KB; as a result, their importance modeling is mainly lim-
ited to the individual messages themselves. Additionally, most cur-
rent joint source and channel coding (JSCC)-based SemComs 
assume that the communication systems support full-resolution
constellation points [ 21] and therefore directly map semantics to 
continuous complex constellations. As a result, it is difﬁcult to 
make these JSCC-based SemComs compatible with current digital 
communication systems. To achieve compatibili ty, DeepJSCC-Q-
type techniques [
21,22] set constellation points as ﬁnite and use 
an NN to learn constellation mapping. However, the modulation 
scheme cannot change once the model is trained, resulting in a lack 
of ﬂexibility in practical use. Moreover, SemComs based on 
DeepJSCC assume that the application layer and physical layer

===== PAGE 3 =====
can be jointly trained, ignoring the constraints proposed by current 
protocol stacks. Therefore, the question of how to design compat-
ible SemCom systems with a higher degree of interpretability
and ﬂexibility is an open yet important topic for 6G.
F. Wang, Y. Zheng, W. Xu et al. Engineering 56 (2026) 34–44
To this end, in this article, we propose a new SemCom architec-
ture based on explicit semantic bases (Sebs), where the generation
of Sebs serves as the direct realization of synonymous mapping
[23]. Moreover, two levels of UEP—that is, Seb-wise and 
message-wise UEP—are proposed to improve the transmission efﬁ-
ciency of SemComs. Protocol stacks compatible with CIT-based
systems are further proposed. The contributions of this work are
summarized as follows:
• A mathematical model of Sebs is proposed, laying the founda-
tion for building an explicit KB for SemComs. Based on this, a 
SemCom architecture with an explicit KB is proposed, consist-
ing of both a communication mode and an update mode,
enabling the intelligent evolution of the system.
• Criteria for designing a semantic encoder/decoder (Sem-codec) 
and channel codec are illustrated, where the communication 
intent is incorporated through the Seb importance level and
messages to provide UEP for critical semantics.
• To facilitate the practical implementation of SemComs, a Seb-
based SemCom protocol stack consistent with the current 3rd 
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) protocol stack is pro-
posed, bridging the gap between theory and application with
respect to SemComs for 6G mobile networks.
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 
introduces the architecture of the Seb-based SemComs, including 
Sebs, the KB, the Sem-codec, and the channel codec. Next, the pro-
tocol of Seb-based SemComs is further discussed in Section 3, fol-
lowed by a case study to demonstrate the effectiveness of the
proposed Seb-based SemComs in Section 4. The work is concluded
in Section 5. 
2. Architecture of SemComs with explicit Sebs
In this section, we provide an overview of the proposed Seb-based
SemCom architecture. As shown in Fig. 2, the architecture involves 
two modes—namely, the communication mode and the KB update 
mode—enabling the proposed SemCom to provide intelligent services
while being capable of self-evolution and optimization. During com-
munications, the KB of the access point (AP) and that of the UEs are 
synchronized, facilitating the extraction and interpretation of mes-
sage semantics. Notably, the underlying intent of communications 
may change over time, making a KB obsolete and resulting in inefﬁ-
cient semantic representation (SR). Consequently, updating is neces-
sary to enable the evolution of the network. The KB update mode is
triggered by requests from the UEs, during which the AP generates
and transmits a KB update message by analyzing the recently sent
messages. To enable ﬂexible SR and efﬁcient KB updates, the KB is
composed of explicit Sebs, represented by the diamond-marked cubes
in Fig. 2. In the remainder of this section, the mathematical model of 
Sebs will be introduced inSection 2.1, based on which the criteria for 
designing the KB, Sem-codec, and channel codec will be further illus-
trated in
Sections 2.2, 2.3, and 2.4, r espectively.
Fig. 2. Architecture of the Seb-based SemComs. The system performs in two modes: the communication mode and the KB update mode. During communications, messages 
are interpreted based on a synchronized KB. A KB update is triggered through requests from the UEs to evolve the system. AP: access point.
36
2.1. Semantic base
The introduction of Sebs in the KB grants SemCom systems 
great interpretability and ﬂexibility compared with implicit KB-
based approaches. As the basic unit for expressing semantic infor-
mation, Sebs serve as an analogous concept to bits in CIT [
23]. 
Nonetheless, the granularity of Sebs can be adjusted to align with 
the intent of communication for intelligent services, thereby meet-
ing diverse representational demands.
We regard the generation of Sebs as a concrete form of synony-
mous mapping [ 15], where messages sharing the same meaning in 
multiple manifestations can be represented by the same Seb. In 
other words, the relationship between syntactic information and
its corresponding semantics is typically many-to-one mapping
[15], as shown in Fig. 3 . In practice, clustering algorithms could 
be employed to realize the aforementioned process of synonymous 
mapping. By clustering the raw semantic features of message seg-
ments with similar semantics, the corresponding cluster centers
can effectively summarize the emerged ‘‘synonyms.” Given a set
of accessible messages where denotes 
the lth message and is the message index, this process 
can be mathematically expressed as follows:
S1 f cluster f SE Xf cluster F1
X x1 x2 xl , xl 
l 1 2

===== PAGE 4 =====
F. Wang, Y. Zheng, W. Xu et al. Engineering 56 (2026) 34–44
Fig. 3. Illustration of a partially ordered set of Sebs, where the semantics of the original message at various granularities are depicted by Sebs at different levels the nith 
Seb at theith level; the total number of Sebs in the level index; the generated set of Sebs at theith level.
where denotes the semantic extraction module, which can be 
implemented using a pretrained NN to output a collection of raw
semantic features denotes the clustering algorithm 
employed (e.g.,K-means). The variable repre-
sents the generated set of Sebs at the ﬁrst level, where represents 
the total number of Sebs in
A synonymous mapping correlation also exists between ﬁne-
and coarse-grained semantics. For instance, in scenarios requir-
ing coarser Seb granularity, such as higher-level intelligent 
tasks including classiﬁcation or object detection, multiple 
ﬁne-grained Sebs can be further mapped into a single coarse-
grained Seb based on synonymous mapping, thereby leading
to a more abstract representation of information for transmis-
sions (shown in Fig. 3 as Sebs in higher levels). We can itera-
tively cluster the Sebs obtained from Eq. (1) to derive higher-
level Sebs; t hat is,
Si 1 f cluster S i 2
Here, with superscripts represents the set of 
Sebs at the ith level. In other words, Sebs in different granularities 
exhibit a hierarchical structure. Accordingly, we model the set of
Sebs as a partially ordered set where Sebs
are elements in the set of Sebs repre-
sents the n ith Seb at theith level, is the total number of Sebs
in and denotes the synonymous mapping relationship, indi-
cating the process of mapping ﬁne-grained Sebs into coarse-
grained Sebs, as shown in the Hasse diagram in Fig. 3. 
Fig. 3 gives an exemplary process of Seb generation for an 
image, where syntactic information that records pixel-level details 
corresponds to the ﬁnest granularity points in the feature space, 
shown as dots in the left part. Fine-grained Sebs aggregate groups 
of pixel-level details sharing the same meaning, corresponding to 
the lowest row of Sebs in the KB. Coarse-grained Sebs, shown in 
the ﬁrst and the second rows in the KB, aggregate sets of similar 
ﬁne-grained Sebs, forming more abstract semantic concepts corre-
sponding to messages that share the same meaning in a broader
perspective (i.e., the dots in the dashed circles in the left part of
the ﬁgure). Overall, by leveraging the many-to-one correlation
between the source messages and their corresponding semantics
across different granularities, Sebs can condense multiple manifes-
tations of the same meaning into a uniﬁed SR, thereby improving
efﬁciency.
The encoding process utilizing Sebs will be described further
in Section 2 .3 . In practical systems, Seb granularity is deter-
mined by both user intent and the available transmission 
resources. For certain intelligent tasks, we can assign varying 
levels of importance to different fractions of the transmitted 
message, considering their differentiated representational 
needs. More speciﬁcally, coarse-grained Sebs excel at capturing 
abstract semantics, which are suitable for resource-constrained 
scenarios to support the transmission of essential task-related 
semantics. In comparison, ﬁne-grained Sebs, which incur 
higher communication overheads, are more accurate in SR 
and are ideal for conveying detailed semantics according to 
the communication intent. The combination of Sebs with dif-
ferent granularities offers a ﬂexible and efﬁcient methodology 
for the execution of intelligent tasks. Moreover, it should be 
noted that Sebs are not limited to representing messages
within the same modality. By customizing feature-extraction
methods for different modalities, a shared feature space can
be built that jointly aligns semantics from different modalities.
Consequently, Sebs can be generated following the same proce-
dure shown in
Fig. 3 , providing a shared SR for data in various 
modalities. In other words, Sebs can be used to facilitate the 
alignment of multimodal data, which would be signiﬁcant for
the realization of ubiquitous connectivity and intelligence for
novel applications in 6G networks.
37
2.2. Knowledge base
The KB is a distinctive component of SemComs that has no 
counterpart in CIT-based networks. By synchronizing knowledge 
across transceivers, the KB enables messages to beinterpreted with
Sebs that serve as shared prior knowledge, thus ensuring the effec-
tiveness of SemComs.
It should be noted that different fractions of the transmitted 
message may have varying levels of importance, and the impor-
tance of Sebs should differ accordingly. For example, in a sce-
nario where a set of images are transmitted for object 
recognition, Sebs that mainly represent the images’ foreground 
should be more important than those mainly representing the 
background. Moreover, communication intents may often 
change dynamically in practical scenarios, leading to a mis-
match between statically generated Sebs and dynamic intents
and decreasing the accuracy and efﬁciency of SR. Therefore,
dynamic updates of Sebs are essential and should further con-
sider Seb importance levels, which are shown as the red bars
beside the Sebs in
Fig. 4 .
To be speciﬁc, the importance levels of Sebs are ﬁrst initialized 
based on the importance of the Sebs’ corresponding raw semantic
features or lower-level Sebs; that is,
. si 
ni 
:
ni : Si ; Si : i 1 2 :
f SE 
F. f cluster 
S s1 
1 s1 
2
s1 
n
1
1
n1 
S1 . 
i 1 2Si 
S ,
si 
n 
i
s1 
1 
s1 
2
s1 
n 
1
s2
1
i 
n
i
s S, 
ni 
Si , 

===== PAGE 5 =====
F. Wang, Y. Zheng, W. Xu et al. Engineering 56 (2026) 34–44
Fig. 4. Architecture of the proposed SemCom system. Sebs are regarded as the basic unit for expressing semantic information and are synchronized in the KB to support the
implementation of the Sem-codec and channel codec.
I1 
k 
1 
Fk f F k
If 3
where denotes the importance of is the set of features
clustered into denotes the cardinality of the set, and is the 
importance of the raw semantic feature that can be obtained 
through methods such as Dino [ 24] or Grad-CAM [20]. Additionally, 
we have
Ii 1 
k 
1 
Si 
k si 
m Si
k
Ii
m 4
for higher-level Sebs with Similarly, is the set 
of Sebs clustered into denotes the importance of the mth Seb 
in theith level , which is further clustered into
is the importance of the kth Seb in theith level
. 
To ensure the efﬁciency of the proposed SemCom system, a KB 
update is triggered when the UE detects inaccuracy in the SR, as
indicated by the dashed line in Fig. 2. In implementation, the accu-
racy of the SR can be measured by the distortion between the 
raw semantic features of a message to be transmitted and the 
Sebs closest to them—that is, the Euclidean distance:
D f SE x Sf SE x f quant f SE xS 2 5
where is the semantic encoding module that identiﬁes the 
closest Sebs in a predeﬁned level based on the importance of the 
raw semantic features. When the accuracy falls below the prede-
ﬁned threshold, the UE will regard the current SR as inaccurate.
The update process includes the following strategies to capture
emerging topics:
Ii 
k t I i 
k 
D t t 0 t t 0 6
is a monotonically decreasing function satisfying
and Here, denotes the most recent time 
at which Seb was used and t is the current time stamp.
• Add new Sebs. New candidate Sebs are generated from recent 
messages, along with their corresponding levels of importance. 
These candidates are integrated into the KB if they exhibit sig-
niﬁcant differences from the existing Sebs (e.g., may also be
measured by the Euclidean distance).
• Adjust Seb importance. The levels of importance of existing 
Sebs are further adjusted according to their age of information
(AoI) [ 4], which underscores the importance of freshness. 
Speciﬁcally, the level of importance of a Seb decreases over time
but will be refreshed upon usage; that is,
38
• Remove obsolete Sebs. Sebs with levels of importance falling 
below a predeﬁned threshold are considered obsolete and are
removed from the KB, thereby reducing KB redundancy and
improving encoding efﬁciency.
The KB update messages are synchronized from the AP to the
UEs, as shown in Fig. 2. 
2.3. Semantic encoder/decoder
The Sem-codec is deployed to extract and interpret the source 
message utilizing Sebs, which can be realized by an NN. The
semantic encoder mainly comprises a semantic extraction module
and a semantic encoding module as shown in Fig. 4. 
The source message is ﬁrst mapped into the semantic space 
through semantic extraction, yielding the corresponding hierarchi-
cal semantic features. Then, the semantic features are quantized by 
corresponding Sebs within the KB. Based on their levels of impor-
tance, these features are quantized using Sebs with different gran-
ularities. To be speciﬁc, more important features are quantized
using ﬁner Sebs, while less important features are quantized using
coarser Sebs. The semantic encoder
can be expressed as
follows:
sidx f
en 
sem x S f quant f SE xS7
where the output records the indices of the selected Sebs. The 
semantic decoder consists of a semantic decoding module
and a downstream task-performing module The received 
are ﬁrst interpreted by with the assistance of the KB, 
which retrieves the semantic features according to the Seb indices. 
Then, the semanti c features are directly used by the task-
performing module to execute downstream tasks; that is,
z f
de 
sem s 
idx 
S f TP f query s
idx
S8
where is the task-performing result and represents the 
semant ic decoder.
Since the accuracy and efﬁciency of SR vary with the granu-
larity of Sebs, by considering the speciﬁc requirements of the
I1 
k s1 
k . Fk # F
s1 
k
, If 
f 
i 2 3 . Si 
k # Si
si 1 
k Ii 
m ,
(m 1 2n i )
si 1 
k . Ii 
k 
(k 1 2n i )
D 
x 
f quant 
D t t 0
D 0 1 D 0. t0 
si 
k 
f SE f quant , 
f
en 
sem 
sidx 
f query 
f TP . 
f query s
idx 
z f
de 
sem

===== PAGE 6 =====
communication intent, a balance can be achieved through the 
comprehensive application of Sebs with different granularities.
Fig. 4 illustrates a SemCom system in which images are trans-
mitted for classiﬁcation. Fine-grained Sebs can be adopted to 
represent the key features necessary for distinguishing 
between categories, such as the facial and body patterns of a 
giraffe, which ensures overall accuracy. Meanwhile, coarse-
grained Sebs can be used for less critical features, such as the
trees and the sky in the background, thereby increasing the efﬁ-
ciency of the communication process.
F. Wang, Y. Zheng, W. Xu et al. Engineering 56 (2026) 34–44
2.4. Channel encoder/d ecoder
It should be noted that, while Sem-codec determines the encod-
ing efﬁciency of the source, the transmission accuracy needs to be
further considered in practical applications. In general, the trans-
mission process of the encoded symbols through the channel 
codec can be expressed as follows:
y f
en 
chan sidx I 
s 
idx 
f
de
chan
yI
9
where and denote the channel encoding and 
decoding modules, respectively; represents 
the set of importance levels of Sebs; denotes the c hannel 
encoding result of ; a nd is the imp aired version of after 
transmission over the physical channel. Similar to the design 
in the Sem-codec, semantic information with different levels of 
importance have differing requirements for accuracy: Errors in 
important semantics must be minimized, whereas less-
important semantics have a certain level of error tolerance in
transmission. More speciﬁcally, elements in that are 
assigned different importance levels should be encoded with 
different channel-coding strategies, where the U EP mechanism
can be naturally introduced. For Seb-based SemCom systems,
UEP can be implemented at two levels—namely, message-wise
and Seb-wise UEP.
Fig. 5. The Seb-wise and message-wise UEP strategies.
39
Fig. 5 illustrates the merits of Seb-wise and message-wise UEP, 
taking image transmission as an example. Suppose an image con-
tains multiple messages, such as a bear, a bird, and the background 
in the image. These messages are ﬁrst mapped to the semantic fea-
ture space and represented as symbols by multiple Sebs. Then, 
these symbols are mapped to the code space, and the mapping pro-
cess reﬂects two UEP mechanisms. The message-wise UEP consid-
ers the case in which messages have varying importance based on
downstream tasks. As shown in the importance heatmap, symbols
corresponding to the bear and bird are mapped to larger encoding
spheres in the code space, as they are more important than the
messages corresponding to the background. The Seb-wise UEP fur-
ther considers the case in which different Sebs representing a mes-
sage have distinct levels of importance for a certain downstream
task. As illustrated in Fig. 5 , the blue/orange regions marked in 
rectangles are distinctive and crucial for classiﬁcation. Accordingly, 
the corresponding blue/orange Sebs are assigned a higher level of 
importance, necessitating prioritized protection. More speciﬁcally, 
the code space is divided into two subspaces, where the Seb-wise 
UEP mechanism ensures that the Seb corresponding to the bear 
(i.e., the region marked in the blue rectangle) only appears in the 
upper half of the code space, while the Seb corresponding to the
bird (i.e., the region marked in the orange rectangle) only appears
in the lower half of the subspace, ensuring a large distance to avoid
confusion between them. Notably, the two levels of UEP can be
implemented simultaneously, as they protect semantic informa-
tion that is crucial for downstream tasks from different perspec-
tives, thereby increasing the robustness of the entire SemCom
system.
By employing explicit Sebs and UEP mechanisms, the proposed 
framework establishes a connection between messages and the 
knowledge within the KB, which ensures the accurate transmission 
of critical semantic information, thereby meeting the demands of
various intents with greater ﬂexibility. The entire process of KB ini-
tialization and communication is summarized in Algorithm 1.
sidx 
f
en 
chan f
de 
chan 
I I1 
1 t I 1
2
t
y 
sidx y y 
sidx 

===== PAGE 7 =====
F. Wang, Y. Zheng, W. Xu et al. Engineering 56 (2026) 34–44
Algorithm 1. KB initialization and communication process in the
Seb-based SemCom framework.
KB initialization: 
Input: Accessible message set
1. Initialize the KB with hierarchical Sebs according
to Eqs. (1) and (2), and attach the set of importance levels of
Sebs according to Eqs. (3) and (4)
2. Synchronize the KB among the UEs
Communication: 
Input: Accessible message set message to be 
transmitted at UE indicator of update request
3. UE estimates accuracy of SR according to Eq. (5) for and 
sets update request if SR accuracy predeﬁned
threshold
4. UE performs semantic/channel encoding according to Eqs.
(7) and (9) and sends the message
5. If update request do 
6. Generate new candidate Sebs from according to Eqs.
(1) and (2)
7.If predeﬁned threshold do
8. Integrate new Sebs into the KB
9.End if 
10. Adjust according to Eq. (6) 
11. Remove obsolete Sebs
12. Synchronize the KB among the UEs
13. End if
3. Protocol of SemComs with explicit Sebs
In this section, a protocol stack of the proposed Seb-based 
SemCom is proposed, which is designed to be highly compatible
with the existing 3GPP protocol stack, as shown in Fig. 6. To ensure 
the system can achieve both intelligence and high efﬁciency, a 
semantic intelligence (SI) plane integrating the KB is introduced,
where Sebs and their corresponding importance information (as
discussed in
Section 2) are incorporated into the KB. The introduc-
tion of the SI plane establishes interactions between the applica-
tion and physical layers of the protocol stack, thereby extending
the functionality of the 3GPP protocol stacks to process informa-
tion at the semantic level.
Fig. 6. Protocol of SemComs with explicit Sebs. SDAP: service data adaptation protocol; PDCP: packet data convergence protocol; MAC: media access control; QoS: quality-of-
service; gNB: next-generation NodeB.
40
In the uplink process, the message is ﬁrst processed by the 
semantic encoder at the UE’s application layer, w here the elements
of the output are then assigned varying levels of importance. Dur-
ing the semantic encoding process, the SI plane provides Sebs for 
quantifying raw semantics and synchronizes the importance informa-
tion with the semantic encoder, enabling the partitioning of based 
on Seb or message importance. Despite being im plemented via an
NN, the output can be represented by bit sequences correspond-
ing to the indices of the Sebs. As a result, the encoded bit sequences 
can be directly processed by existing protocols such as the service 
data adaptation protocol (SDAP), packet data convergence protocol 
(PDCP), and media access control (MAC) for purposes of transmis-
sion—including quality-of-service (QoS) mapping, encryption, and 
scheduling—before the ﬁnal generation of physical signals. To achieve 
UEP for semantic ﬂows according to their level of importance, the 
interaction between the SI plane and the physical layer is taken into
consideration. The SI plane provides importance-related information
for the upper-layer packets, thereby matching each packet with an
appropriate modulation and coding scheme (MCS) and prioritizing
t h et r a n s m i s s i o no fm o r ec r i t i c a ls e m a n t i c s .
Meanwhile, the next-generation NodeB (gNB), which shares the 
same underlying protocol structure as the UE, decodes the received 
signals and further forwards the decoded packets to the target des-
tinations. The uplink transmission procedure with the proposed
Seb-empowered protocol is summarized in Algorithm 2 for clarity.
X 
S
I 
X, 
x, R 0 
x 
R 1 
R 1 
X s 
D s S 
s 
I 
x 
sidx 
sidx 
sidx 

===== PAGE 8 =====
Similarly, for downlink scenarios, the SI plane provides Sebs and 
the corresponding importance-related information for both the 
gNB and the UE, enabling semantic interpretation of the received
signals for the speciﬁc intelligent task.
F. Wang, Y. Zheng, W. Xu et al. Engineering 56 (2026) 34–44
Algorithm 2. Uplink transmission procedure with the proposed
SemCom protocol stack.
UE processing: 
1. Application layer:Encode message following 
Section 2.3 with Sebs provided by SI plane, obtaining
according to Eq. (7) 
2. SDAP layer: Perform QoS mapping according to 
importance levels provided by SI plane
3. PDCP layer: Cipher upper-layer packets
4. MAC layer: Perform mapping between logical channels to
transport channels
5. Physical layer: Encode upper-layer packets into 
transmitting data steams using channel encoder proposed
in Section 2.4 according to Eq. (9), where different MCS are 
adopted for packets with different importance levels
gNB processing: 
6. Physical layer: Decode received signals following
Section 2.4, where packets with different importance levels 
are correspondingly decoded according to Eq. (9) 
7. MAC layer: Perform mapping from transport channels to
logical channels
8. PDCP layer: Decipher data packets
9. SDAP layer: Resolve data packets of different QoS ﬂows 
and prepare the forwarding packet to destination gNB
4. Case study: Seb-based SemCom for image transmission
In this section, a case study of an image-transmission task is 
carried out to illustrate the performance of the proposed Seb-
based SemCom system. The implementation methodology is ﬁrst
introduced; then, the simulation settings and simulation results
are presented.
4.1. Implementation of the SemCom system
We consider a scenario in which images are transmitted by UEs 
to the AP, while the AP maintains and synchronizes the KB with the 
UEs by analyzing the previously received images. The NN of the 
SemCom system is ﬁrst trained as an initialization process. Specif-
ically, the semantic extraction module and the task-performing
module are implemented by a convolutional neural network
(CNN). For semantic extraction, each image is ﬁrst divided into
patches and then processed by four convolution layers with gener-
alized divisive normalization (GDN) [ 25] as the activation function 
to obtain a collection of raw semantics. For task performance, the 
recovered semantics are inversely processed by four deconvolution
layers with inverse GDN (IGDN) [
25] to obtain patch-wise image 
reconstructions, which are then concatenated [ 26]. The system is 
jointly trained on the ImageNet training dataset [ 27] with 50 000 
images being randomly sampled. The learning rate is set to 10 –4 
and 10 –5 each for one epoch and is then ﬁxed at 10 –6 until the
NN converges.
To realize a hierarchical representation, we consider two differ-
ent levels of patch size—namely, {32 × 32, 16 × 16}—to generate 
coarse and ﬁne-grained Sebs, respectively. For semantic encoding,
the top 20% of the most important regions of the transmitted image
are encoded by ﬁne-grained Sebs, and the remaining 80% of the 
image regions are encoded by coarse-grained Sebs. For channel 
encoding, we adopt message-wise UEP. Sebs that represent the 
top 50% of the most important regions of the image are transmitted 
at a lower rate (i.e., using 1/2 rate low-density parity-check (LDPC) 
and 4-quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM)) to ensure higher
accuracy. Meanwhile, Sebs representing the remaining 50% of
image regions are transmitted at a higher rate (i.e., using 2/3 rate
LDPC and 4-QAM). The test is conducted on additive white Gaus-
sian noise (AWGN) channels. The engineered codec better portable
graphics (BPG), JPEG2000, and the SemCom methods [ 7] (referred 
to as ‘‘JSCC”) and [ 28] (referred to as ‘‘VQSemCom”) are adopted 
for comparison. To demonstrate the impact of the UEP in our pro-
posed method, all comparison schemes except JSCC directly adopt 
a high-rate transmission scheme (i.e., using 2/3 rate LDPC and 4-
QAM), and the JSCC method is directly trained under an AWGN
channel with the target signal-to-noise ratio (SNR; i.e., 4 dB). The
channel-bandwidth ratio (CBR) is set equally across all methods
by adjusting the source coding rate accordingly for fair compari-
son. The learned perceptual image patch similarity (LPIPS) metric
[29] is primarily adopted to evaluate the quality of the recon-
structed images, being deﬁned as the average Euclidean distance 
between feature maps. The LPIPS effectively reﬂects human per-
ception, with lower values indicating greater perceptual similarity.
The peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR) and multi-scale structural
similarity (MS-SSIM) [ 30] results are also provided for reference, 
where higher values indicate better results.
41
Notably, the proposed Seb-based SemCom system performs 
well when the testing dataset differs from the training dataset 
without updating the parameters of the NN. To verify this property, 
a validation dataset is constructed by sampling images from vari-
ous distributed datasets. The dataset consists of 30 image subsets,
with the ﬁrst ten subsets randomly sampled from the Cityscapes
[31] test set and the middle and last ten subsets randomly sampled 
from the Bosphorus and YachtRide sequences from the Ultra Video
Group (UVG) dataset [ 32], respectively. Each subset contains 30 
−50 images, each with 2048 × 1024 pixels. The subsets are trans-
mitted sequentially to mimic cases in which the intent of image
transmission changes over time. According to the methodology in
Section 2.2, the KB of our method is updated after the transmission 
of the ﬁrst, 11th, and 21st subsets; the performance will be vali-
dated in Section 4.2. 
4.2. Simulation results
A visual comparison of the proposed Seb-based SemCom sys-
tem with the baselines is shown in Fig. 7 , where the ﬁrst row 
shows the transmitted image and its corresponding heatmap. The 
second row shows the visualization and LPIPS results under chan-
nel conditions that ensure error-free transmission. The third row 
shows the corresponding results under poor channel conditions,
when transmission errors are inevitable. The CBR of the proposed
method, the BPG method, the JSCC method, and the VQSemCom
method are set equally.
More speciﬁcally, the second row in Fig. 7 demonstrates the 
results when the SNR is 4 dB, allowing all methods to ensure 
error-free transmissions. The proposed method (referred to as 
‘‘ours”) utilizes ﬁne-grained Sebs to more precisely represent the 
visually important foreground areas, such as the ship and the 
splashing waves, while coarse-grained Sebs ensure efﬁcient repre-
sentation of the background elements, such as the mountains in
the transmitted image. Consequently, the proposed method
achieves superior perceptual quality compared with the BPG, JSCC,
and VQSemCom methods. The ‘‘ours w/o update” scheme refers to
the Seb-based framework in the absence of KB updates. Under this
x 
sidx 

===== PAGE 9 =====
condition, distortions in color and detail can be observed due to the 
mismatch between the Sebs and the current communication 
intent. It should be noted that we study an extreme case, in which 
there is a large distinction between the transmission intents, to
elucidate the impact of KB synchronization on system perfor-
mance. In practical applications, intents generally do not undergo
such distinct changes, resulting in only a gentle degradation of per-
formance, which w ill be further illustrated in
Section 4.3. 
F. Wang, Y. Zheng, W. Xu et al. Engineering 56 (2026) 34–44
Fig. 7. A visual comparison of image reconstruction by different methods. w/o: without.
The third row in Fig. 7 illustrates the results when SNR is set as 
2.5 dB, where transmission errors become inevitable in this case. 
The BPG method fails to reconstruct the image under this condition 
and thus is not shown in the ﬁgure. In contrast, the SemCom meth-
ods demonstrate better robustness against transmission errors. 
Notably, the JSCC method exhibits the highest robustness, with 
an LPIPS degradation of 0.05. This robustness is attributed to the 
joint design of source and channel coding. The VQSemCom 
method, which employs separate source and channel coding, suf-
fers more severe noise impact, barely revealing the outline of the
scene. Our method (referred to as ‘‘ours UEP”) effectively mitigates
noise impact by emphasizing the protection of the critical image
regions highlighted in the heatmap; thus, it maintains an advan-
tage over the JSCC and VQSemCom methods in LPIPS. In contrast,
randomly protecting regions (referred to as ‘‘ours random UEP”)
or transmitting the entire image at a higher rate (referred to as
‘‘ours w/o UEP”) results in a more severe noise impact, indicating
the effectiveness of the explicit UEP strategies proposed in
Section 2.4. 
Fig. 8. Overall performance under different SNRs in an AWGN channel: (a) LPIPS under different SNRs, (b) PSNR under different SNRs, and (c) MS-SSIM under different SNRs.
42
Fig. 8 shows the impact of the SNR on the proposed Seb-based 
SemCom system. It can be observed that, when the SNR reaches 
4 dB and above, all schemes achieve error-free transmission. The 
proposed method provides more desirable image perceptual qual-
ity, with an average improvement of more than 20% in LPIPS com-
pared with both traditional and SemCom counterparts at the same 
transmission cost. When the SNR falls below 3.5 dB, the high-rate 
transmission scheme fails to ensure error-free transmission, lead-
ing to a performance decline of differing degrees across all meth-
ods. Notably, the proposed Seb-based method with UEP applied 
(denoted as ‘‘ours UEP”) generally outperforms the counterpart 
that applies UEP randomly to the image (denoted as ‘‘ours random 
UEP”), demonstrating the effectiveness of the importance-driven 
UEP mechanism. The reason for this effectiveness is that the UEP 
mechanism enables the Seb-based method to provide additional 
protection to pivotal parts of the message through the low-rate 
transmission scheme, further increasing the robustness against 
channel noise. Moreover, it can be seen that the performance of 
the BPG and JPEG2000 methods deteriorate more rapidly, showing 
a ‘‘cliff effect” in terms of LPIPS. The VQSemCom method exhibits
better robustness compared with traditional methods, as it does
not use entropy coding in its encoding process, thereby avoiding
further performance degradation brought by error propagation.

===== PAGE 10 =====
However, its performance still shows a signiﬁcant decline. Notably, 
the Seb-based method, which also uses the same high-rate trans-
mission scheme (denoted as ‘‘ours w/o UEP”), despite experiencing 
severe transmission errors, exhibits better performance than the 
SemCom baselines, highlighting the advantage of the Seb-based 
Sem-codec. The JSCC method shows the best robustness against 
noise, which is attributed to its joint design methodology. How-
ever, the upper-bound of its performance under good channel con-
ditions is less competitive. The performance is also evaluated in
PSNR and MS-SSIM, which show similar trends as in LPIPS. How-
ever, it is interesting to observe that the traditional image coding
method BPG generally performs better than all SemCom methods
in terms of PSNR and MS-SSIM in a high-SNR regime. This result
may occur because the two evaluation metrics focus more on the
syntactic aspects of images. In the low-SNR regime, the SemCom
systems show better performance, indicating their advantage of
robustness under harsh transmitting conditions.
F. Wang, Y. Zheng, W. Xu et al. Engineering 56 (2026) 34–44
4.3. Impact of KB updating
Fig. 9 exhibits the effectiveness of KB updating. The test is con-
ducted under an SNR of 4 dB, ensuring error-free transmissions for
the ablation study. The transmission intents change at the 11th
and 21st subsets, as depicted in
Section 4.1 . For comparison, the 
Seb-based system without a KB update is also evaluated, shown 
as the solid line marked with X’s. It is obvious that the performance 
degrades once the communication intents change. This occurs 
because the mismatch between the Sebs in the KB and the changed
communication intent results in a poor SR performance in seman-
tic encoding. However, it should be noted that a KB update will be
triggered once the SR performance falls below a predeﬁned thresh-
old, as discussed in Section 2.2; the Seb-based SemCom can then 
quickly evolve without retraining the NN, as shown in Fig. 9, pro-
viding an easier deployment strategy in practical settings.
4.4. Impact of Seb granularity
To demonstrate the impact of Seb granularity on the perfor-
mance of intelligent tasks, an additional experiment is conducted 
on the Seb-based SemCom system with respect to an image classi-
ﬁcation task. As shown in
Fig. 10 , different ratios of ﬁne-grained 
Sebs are adopted to represent the image semantics. The experi-
ment is conducted using the ImageNet [ 27] validation dataset, 
which contains 50 image samples per class. Within the dataset,
25 images are randomly selected for Seb generation, while the
remaining 25 are used for testing. A ResNet-50 classiﬁer [ 33] i s 
introduced to further perform the image classiﬁcation tasks based 
on the reconstructed images. The basic setting of the framework
follows Section 4.1 , except that a uniform 1/2 rate LDPC and 4-
QAM are adopted for channel coding to ensure reliable transmis-
sion. The ratios of ﬁne-grained Sebs are set as {0, 0.2, 0.5, 0.8,
1.0}, with the corresponding CBR being {0.32, 0.51, 0.79, 1.08,
1.27}, represented by the bars from left to right in
Fig. 10. As the 
proportion of ﬁne-grained Sebs increases, higher encoding and
transmission overheads are incurred.
Fig. 9. Impact of KB updating, where the communication intent change at the 11th
and 21st subsets.
43
Fig. 10. Performance of the Seb-based SemCom with varying ratios of ﬁne-grained
Sebs.
It can be observed that, as the ratio of ﬁne-grained Sebs 
increases, the perceptual quality gradually improves, correspond -
ing to the decreases in LPIPS values. This observation is consistent
with the analysis in
Section 2.1, where ﬁne-grained Sebs provide 
more precise SR to support higher perceptual quality, at the cost 
of higher channel bandwidth consumption. The top-5 accuracy 
with respect to the classiﬁcation task also increases with the incre-
mental ratio of ﬁne-grained Sebs. However, there is an evident sat-
uration ﬂoor with respect to the granularity, which is distinct from
the reconstruction task. To be speciﬁc, the top-5 accuracy rises
from 60% to 80% as the proportion of ﬁne-grained Sebs grows from
0 to 20%, and the performance is gradually saturated, such that
additional increments in the proportion of ﬁne-grained Sebs lead
to more moderate gains.
The distinct patterns regarding the impact of granularity for the 
two different tasks are in line with the analysis in Section 2.1. For 
the classiﬁcation task, critical regions within the image contain the 
key features of objects. The precision of the representation of these 
critical regions directly determines the accuracy of the classiﬁca-
tion task. Once the proportion of ﬁne-grained Sebs effectively 
meets the representation requirements of these regions, the addi-
tional increment in ﬁne-grained Sebs no longer contributes to the
intelligent task (i.e., classiﬁcation in this case). As a result, the per-
formance of the intelligent task shows a saturation ﬂoor with
respect to Seb granularity, where ﬁner-grained Sebs lead to a
higher CBR, as shown in
Fig. 9. In contrast, the reconstruction tasks 
require detailed semantics across the image; thus, the usage of
increasingly ﬁner-grained Sebs leads to consistent improvement
in perceptual quality.
Overall, it is obvious that Seb granularity impacts the perfor-
mance of intelligent tasks, where ﬁner-grained Sebs lead to a bet-
ter performance. However, ﬁner-grained Sebs also lead to a larger 
communication overhead—that is, a larger CBR in the experiment. 
Moreover, the choice of Seb granularity is related to the communi-
cation intent—that is, downstream tasks in the system. As a result,
the efﬁciency and overall performance of the Seb-based SemCom

===== PAGE 11 =====
can be adaptively controlled by adjusting the Seb granularity in 
practical use, which is signiﬁcant for the ﬂexible deployment of
the Seb-based SemComs.
F. Wang, Y. Zheng, W. Xu et al. Engineering 56 (2026) 34–44
5. Conclusion s
In this article, we proposed an explicit Seb-based SemCom 
architecture for interpretable and ﬂexible semantic-level commu-
nications for 6G. First, a mathematical model of Sebs was intro-
duced, followed by descriptions of the designed criteria for the 
KB, Sem-codec, and channel-codec. A novel Seb-based protocol 
stack was further proposed, considering the compatibility of cur-
rent CIT-based networks, with the introduction of an SI plane to 
incorporate the KB for ubiquitous intelligence and self-evolution 
for 6G networks. A case study of an image transmission task was
conducted, in which the proposed architecture functioned robustly
regarding changes in communication intents, obtaining an average
improvement of 20% in the LPIPS compared with the BPG,
JPEG2000, JSCC, and VQSemCom baselines. An ablation study
showed that the efﬁciency and overall performance of the pro-
posed Seb-based SemComs can be effectively controlled by adjust-
ing the Seb granularity, demonstrating great ﬂexibility in
deployment for practical use.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Fengyu Wang: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original 
draft, Validation, Supervision, Project administration, Methodol-
ogy, Investigation, Funding acquisition, Formal analysis, Conceptu-
alization. Yuan Zheng: Writing – review & editing, Writing – 
original draft, Visualization, Validation, Software, Methodology, 
Investigation, Data curation, Conceptualization. Wenjun Xu: Writ-
ing – review & editing, Supervision, Resources, Project administra-
tion, Methodology, Funding acquisition, Conceptualization.
Junxiao Liang:Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft,
Validation, Software, Methodology, Investigation, Formal analysis.
Ping Zhang:Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Resources,
Project administration, Funding acquisition, Conceptualization.
Zhu Han:Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Resources,
Conceptualization.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing ﬁnan-
cial interests or personal relationsh ips that could have appeared
to inﬂuence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgments 
This work was supported in part by the National Natural 
Science Foundation of China (62293485 and 62301069) and the
Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities
(2025TSQY11).
References 
[1] Shannon CE. A mathematical theory of communication. Bell Syst Tech J
1948;27:379–423. 
[2] Yang W, Du H, Liew ZQ, Lim WYB, Xiong Z, Niyato D, et al. Semantic
communications for future internet: fundamentals, applications, and
challenges. IEEE Commun Surv Tutor 2023;25:213–50 . 
[3] Niu K, Dai J, Yao S, Wang S, Si Z, Qin X, et al. A paradigm shift toward semantic
communications. IEEE Commun Mag 2022;60:113–9 . 
[4] Yang W, Liew ZQ, Lim WYB, Xiong Z, Niyato D, Chi X, et al. Semantic
communication meets edge intelligence. IEEE Wirel Commun 2022;29:28–35 . 
44
[5] Pokhrel SR, Choi J. Understand-before-talk (UBT): a semantic communication
approach to 6G networks. IEEE Trans Veh Technol 2023;72:3544–56 . 
[6] Zhang P, Xu W, Liu Y, Qin X, Niu K, Cui S, et al. Intellicise wireless networks
from semantic communications: a survey, research issues, and challenges. IEEE
Commun Surv Tutor 2025;27(3):2051–84 . 
[7] Bourtsoulatze E, Kurka DB, Gündüz D. Deep joint source–channel coding for
wireless image transmission. IEEE Trans Cogn Commun Netw 2019;5:567–79 . 
[8] Xie H, Qin Z, Li GY, Juang BH. Deep learning enabled semantic communication
systems. IEEE Trans Signal Process 2021;69:2663–75 . 
[9] Li A, Wei X, Wu D, Zhou L. Cross-modal semantic communications. IEEE Wirel
Commun 2022;29:144–51. 
[10] Tong W, Li GY. Nine challenges in artiﬁcial intelligence and wireless
communications for 6G. IEEE Wirel Commun 2022;29:140–5 . 
[11] Ren J, Zhang Z, Xu J, Chen G, Sun Y, Zhang P, et al. Knowledge base enabled
semantic communication: a generative perspective. IEEE Wirel Commun
2024;31:14–22. 
[12] Yi P, Cao Y, Kang X, Liang YC. Deep learning-empowered semantic
communication systems with a shared knowledge base. IEEE Trans Wirel
Commun 2023;23:6174–87. 
[13] Zhang H, Shao S, Tao M, Bi X, Letaief KB. Deep learning-enabled semantic
communication systems with task-unaware transmitter and dynamic data.
IEEE J Sel Areas Commun 2023;41:170–85 . 
[14] Luo X, Chen HH, Guo Q. Semantic communications: overview, open issues, and
future research directions. IEEE Wirel Commun 2022;29:210–9 . 
[15] Niu K, Zhang P. A mathematical theory of semantic communication. J Commun
2024;45:7–59. 
[16] Dai J, Zhang P, Niu K, Wang S, Si Z, Qin X. Communication beyond transmitting
bits: semantics-guided source and channel coding. IEEE Wirel Commun
2022;30:170–7. 
[17] Fu Y, Cheng W, Zhang W, Wang J. Scalable extraction based semantic
communication for 6G wireless networks. IEEE Commun Mag
2023;62:96–102. 
[18] Ballé J, Chou PA, Minnen D, Singh S, Johnston N, Agustsson E, et al. Nonlinear
transform coding. IEEE J Sel Top Signal Process 2020;15:339–53. 
[19] Judd T, Ehinger K, Durand F, Torralba A. Learning to predict where humans 
look. In: Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision;
2009 Sep 29–Oct 2; Kyoto, Japan. New York City: IEEE; 2009. p. 2106–13.
[20] Selvaraju RR, Cogswell M, Das A, Vedantam R, Parikh D, Batra D. Grad-CAM: 
visual explanations from deep networks via gradient-based localization. In: 
Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision; 2017
Oct 22–29; Venice, Italy. New York City: IEEE; 2017. p. 618–26.
[21] Zhang G, Yang P, Cai Y, Hu Q, Yu G. From analog to digital: multi-order digital
joint coding-modulation for semantic communication. 2024.
arXiv:2406.05437.
[22] Tung TY, Kurka DB, Jankowski M, Gündüz D. DeepJSCC-Q: constellation
constrained deep joint source–channel coding. IEEE J Sel Areas Inf Theory
2022;3(4):720–31. 
[23] Zhang P, Xu W, Gao H, Niu K, Xu X, Qin X, et al. Toward wisdom-evolutionary
and primitive-concise 6G: a new paradigm of semantic communication
networks. Engineering 2022;8:60–73 . 
[24] Oquab M, Darcet T, Moutakanni T, Vo H, Szafraniec M, Khalidov V, et al.
DINOv2: learning robust visual features without supervision. 2024.
arXiv:2304.07193.
[25] Ballé J, Laparra V, Simoncelli EP. Density modeling of images using a
generalized normalization transformation. 2016. arXiv:1511.06281.
[26] Zheng Y, Wang F, Xu W, Pan M, Zhang P. Semantic communications with 
explicit semantic base for image transmission. In: Proceedings of the IEEE
Global Communications Conference; 2023 Dec 4–8; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
New York City: IEEE; 2023. p. 4497–502.
[27] Russakovsky O, Deng J, Su H, Krause J, Satheesh S, Ma S, et al. ImageNet large-
scale visual recognition challenge. Int J Comput Vis 2015;115:211–52 . 
[28] Fu Q, Xie H, Qin Z, Slabaugh G, Tao X. Vector quantized semantic
communication system. IEEE Wirel Commun Lett 2023;12:982–6 . 
[29] Zhang R, Isola P, Efros AA, Shechtman E, Wang O. The unreasonable 
effectiveness of deep features as a perceptual metric. In: Proceedings of the 
IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition; 2018 Jun 18–
22; Salt Lake City, UT, USA. Piscataway: IEEE; 2018. p. 586–95.
[30] Wang Z, Simoncelli EP, Bovik AC. Multiscale structural similarity for image 
quality assessment. In: Proceedings of the 37th Asilomar Conference on
Signals, Systems & Computers; 2003 Nov 9–12; Paciﬁc Grove, CA, USA. New
York City: IEEE; 2003. p. 1398–402.
[31] Cordts M, Omran M, Ramos S, Rehfeld T, Enzweiler M, Benenson R, et al. The 
Cityscapes dataset for semantic urban scene understanding. In: Proceedings of 
the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition; 2016 Jun
27–30; Las Vegas, NV, USA. New York City: IEEE; 2016. p. 3213–23.
[32] Mercat A, Viitanen M, Vanne J. UVG dataset: 50/120 fps 4K sequences for video 
codec analysis and development. In: Proceedings of the 11th ACM Multimedia
Systems Conference; 2020 Jun 8–11; Istanbul, Türkiye. New York City:
Association for Computing Machinery; 2020. p. 297–302.
[33] He K, Zhang X, Ren S, Sun J. Deep residual learning for image recognition. In: 
Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition; 2016 Jun 27–30; Las Vegas, NV, USA. New York City: IEEE;
2016. p. 770–8.